We're at a world now where there's
heightened uncertainty.
>> If we have a peace deal, then we could
have a relief rally in markets. The
market has been volatile during this
period, but not a tremendous amount of
downside yet.
>> The market is pricing in that there's
going to be a resolution.
>> We are going into an area of really
uncharted waters at this point.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, extending the uncertainty.
President Trump says he's extending
talks with Iran for 10 more days. As the
energy market is considering a close
straight until at least April 6th, it's
leaving oil at triple digits, leaving
bond yields at the highs of the year.
The uncertainty persists.
>> have we learned this week? It has been a
tumultuous week and one potential
takeaway could be that the Truth Social
diplomacy plan is losing its punch when
it comes to propping up markets.
Yesterday, we got this Truth Social post
that you were talking about from
President Trump talking about postponing
that deadline. We saw the worst one-day
sell-off before that posting in the S&P
since the war started. Now, we're still
seeing equities lower, we're still
seeing bond yields higher, we're still
seeing oil prices higher. That is the
takeaway for me.
>> This is the problem. We've replaced
near-term escalation risk with an
extension of the uncertainty.
Persistence is the problem this morning.
If the straight closure persists, triple
digit crude persists. If that's the
case, you don't need oil to keep going
on higher. You just need oil to stay at
these levels to cause sufficient
problems, which is why if you check out
the bond market this morning, twos, 10s,
30s, two-year yields back to where they
were Monday morning before that post on
diplomatic talks. 10-year bond yields
higher than they were on Monday morning.
>> you take a look at Japanese two-year
yields, they're at the highest levels
going back to 1996. It's is just a US
bond market move, it is a global bond
market move as they reckon with the
potential of rate hikes coming from
central banks around the world in
response to oil prices remaining where
they are. We keep talking about
asymmetric risks. The longer this goes
on, the more of a sea change people see
with respect to inflation downside risk
to growth.
>> And we're tracking the troop movement.
This from the Wall Street Journal. Check
out this report. The Pentagon looking at
sending up to 10,000 additional ground
troops to the Middle East to give
President Trump more military options.
That's hanging over this market as well.
>> Absolutely because if those 10,000
troops are sent to the region on top of
the Marines and on top of the eight of
the already deployed soldiers from the
82nd Airborne Division, that would
signal to this market that this
potentially would be a longer, more
protracted war, which is why potentially
you can see crude stay higher for much
longer. We should note, this right now
is just a report, but it does show that
the president is keeping his options
open.
>> eats away at confidence. It eats away at
the Fed's easing bias. It eats away at
potentially economic growth. Why send
troops there if you aren't going to use
them? If you have this hardening line
from both sides and this is already
going on for a longer period of time and
ships are not getting through the Strait
of Hormuz, people are pricing in a
slightly new regime, which is what
you're seeing coming through the bond
market, which potentially could be the
real signal that people need to pay
attention to. I think what's going on
the street, obviously, is of critical
importance. This White House, the
president talked about it a lot
yesterday when I was in the cabinet
meeting. But then this morning you see
Iran says that the IRGC turned back
three container vessels through Hormuz.
So you think potentially they're
allowing more individuals to come in,
more vessels to come in if you pay the
Tehran toll, but right now this morning
they're turning back some vessels. And
this is a massive problem for this White
House.
>> Equity futures this morning down by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500.
Coming up this hour, Russ Koesterich of
BlackRock as the president extends
talks. Kevin Book of ClearView Energy
Partners with crude still pushing higher
and Joe Davis of Vanguard with policy
makers warning of rising inflation. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump extending talks with
Iran for 10 more days. Leading our
coverage out of the region Bloomberg's
Jamillah Abu Setchi joins us now from
Dubai. Jamillah, it's another 10 days of
uncertainty.
Yeah, well, you know, on first blush
this actually came as a relief to the
the nations in the region. The strikes
on infrastructure and key civilian
infrastructure both against Iran but
also potentially in retaliation against
the Gulf states pushed back by 10 days.
So that was the I would say short-term
reaction. But beyond that there's still
a lot of skepticism about the state of
these talks whether they're actually
happening, whether the Iranians do want
to engage. And the Iranians at least
rhetorically are not signaling that any
discussions are taking place. And in
fact the Iranian foreign minister Abbas
Araghchi gave an interview to local TV
yesterday and he said that they're not
engaged in any talks to end the war.
They don't have plans to engage in those
talks but the US had sent messages to
them via Pakistan which is in line with
the reporting over the last couple of
days. But there is no sign whatsoever
that this in-person summit that people
had been talking about is set to take
place. So that is the diplomacy angle.
But at the same time in light of what
you were just discussing I think we
really are going into a critical weekend
in terms of the mobilization of troops
that the US is amassing in this part of
the world. We've been reporting over the
course of the last couple of days that
there are two Marine expeditionary units
making their way. Our expectation is
that the first unit will arrive in a
couple of days. The next unit should
arrive in mid-April just to give you
an idea of the time frame here. Wall
Street Journal Wall Street Journal
reporting overnight that the Pentagon
are also considering sending 10,000
troops alongside infantry and key
vessels as well. And so the the takeaway
from all of this is the US is preparing
for perhaps another stage of escalation.
And you've got to assume that when once
all of this new military assets these
new military assets are deployed, they
are going to be in striking distance of
Iran or Kharg Islands, which is the key
export islands or there's going to be
some form of an attempt to forcefully
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. There are
little islands situated nearby as well.
So, the overarching question as we go
into the weekend and perhaps is less
about whether diplomacy is going to
yield anything, but actually what the US
is plans are on the ground if there is a
plan. Jumana Abu-Hashish out of Dubai.
Jumana, appreciate your time. Stay
close. No doubt we'll get some news
throughout this morning. The base case
at the start of this war,
it won't matter to markets if it's days
and not weeks. Remember that. And then
it was weeks and not months. And now
here we are at the one-month marker and
a new self-imposed deadline of April
6th. So, we'll be talking about this
into April based on this guidance.
Prediction markets are saying that
through the end of April this could
potentially be the reality. And the
issue is, and people are watching this,
you don't just open the Strait of
Hormuz. You don't just say, "Okay, green
light. Go ahead." This is the issue, the
lag time. And so as people try to price
that in, it seems like another number of
asset classes are really starting to
respond.
>> It's the reality of production in the
region. The longer some of the
production is shut in, the harder it is
to ramp up production coming out the
other side.
>> why Macquarie this morning is out with a
note saying if this is protracted, it
lasts a lot longer, you're looking at
$200 a barrel when it comes to oil. We
actually know and had a reporting from
our colleagues in Washington that the
Treasury Department was modeling out
what the impact would be for that
number, $200. So, that is another key
threshold everyone is watching.
>> Let's get to the view on Wall Street
this morning. Russ Koesterich of
BlackRock writes in the following,
"While our base case is no recession,
the energy shock suggests a moderation
in near-term growth expectations." Russ
joins us now for more. Russ, welcome to
the program. You and the team have been
de-risking. Where and what in?
Good morning, Jonathan. We've been
de-risking across the board. We've
really been getting closer to the
benchmark in our equity positions,
closer to the benchmark in duration.
We've been bringing down some of the
factor risk in the portfolio, and there
there are a couple reasons for that. The
The obvious one is we don't know how
long this is going to go
to continue. I think you used exactly
the right word a few moments ago,
persistence. And the longer this
persists, the greater the risk to
inflation, the economy. But the other
reason for de-risking is that there
really aren't any fit hedges in this
context. In '22, the dollar actually was
an effective hedge against the sell-off
in equities. Last decade, Treasuries
were providing some downside when there
were concerns about growth. In other
circumstances, gold has been working.
Nothing is working right now. So really
the only thing you can do within a
portfolio other than making some
adjustments at the stock level is to
bring the risk down. I often say in
moments like this, the bonds don't work.
They make things worse. Yields right now
up again by four basis points for us.
10s at 4.45, 2s at 4%. Lisa and I
yesterday spent a lot of time on a weak
two-year auction, a weak five-year
auction, followed by a weak seven-year
auction as well, Russ. What is happening
there? What's behind those moves?
So this to me is actually maybe even a
bit more interesting what's going on in
equity markets. So it's very easy to
understand. You have an oil shock,
higher inflation, hit to growth, and and
what's happening with stocks. The bond
market I think is more nuanced.
Obviously, the bond market is reacting
to what will be an increase in headline
inflation. That said, as you point out,
I think most people realize higher
energy, not just oil, but natural gas,
higher food prices, higher fertilizer
fertilizer prices, all of which leads to
an increase in in headline inflation.
But the problem is one, uh that doesn't
necessarily flow into core, and two, it
is also a drag on growth. It is
happening at time when the labor market
is already a bit soft. So, the notion
that you just want to keep selling bonds
into this, to me that's less obvious.
And I do think at some point, uh if the
concerns about growth continue to build,
if we do have $100 or higher oil for
prolonged period of time, there is a
question about at what point you want to
start bringing bonds back into your
portfolio as a hedge against weaker
growth, which is going to be another
risk we're going to contend with. Part
of the reason why it's been so hard for
us to get a handle on when that point is
when people should step in and buy
duration, is it's unclear exactly what's
behind the sell-off. Is it technical? Is
it a question of central banks that are
selling what they can to raise money for
possible fiscal stimulus? Is it a
potential concern for a fiscal response
to any kind of slowdown in the future?
What's your take on this?
So, I think it's a great question. Uh
to my mind, one of the things that's
that's clearly going on is a pricing out
of what would have been a number of
uh rate cuts from the Fed and pricing in
a greater possibility of hikes,
particularly from the ECB. So, as the
the front end of the curve is adjusting,
you're seeing that movement throughout
all of the yield curve. But again, if
we're going to be in an environment
where $100 oil persists, and I think you
know, you already made a good point a
few moments ago, it's not as if oil's
going to go back to 65 the second the
shooting stops. There's been damage to
infrastructure. There are questions
about how long it takes to open the
Straits of Hormuz. There is likely to be
a war premium or uh a risk premium
embedded in oil for many, many months.
So, if you're going to have that period
of prolonged higher energy and all the
knock-on effects, you've got to start to
bring down your growth expectations,
most of which were high coming into the
year. And at some point, uh that
probably does suggest bringing your
duration up further.
Which uh is something that I know others
including JP Morgan has been thinking of
doing this doing given all of this and
given what we know in terms of the
prolonged conflict. Do you think that
right now we're facing a market that is
overly complacent when it comes to the
growth shock that's coming down the
pike?
I don't think it's overly complacent
because I do think you've already seen a
fairly significant adjustment. I also
believe that at least in the US, I think
the situation in Europe is certainly
more serious given their exposure to
higher energy prices. I think the US can
probably survive eight year 90 oil still
have a year when growth is positive. The
course the difference is going to be
that we're not going to get or we're
much more less likely to get the type of
above trend growth that investors were
expecting just a few months ago. And if
you look what the equity market has been
doing is actually responding to that.
Uh the rotation that dominated back in
late 25 early 26 was all about as a
broadening out. You bought cyclicals,
you bought uh value, you bought
international stocks, you bought small
caps. To my mind those trades were
predicated on above trend growth. As you
start to price that growth out, you're
seeing a reversal of many of those
trends. Investors have been looking for
more defensive parts of the market and
interestingly enough they've also been
looking at tech at least on a relative
basis is holding up better in a world
which economic growth is not as much of
a tailwind. Hi Russ, always good to
catch up. Russ Koesterich of BlackRock.
Certain piece of tech maybe but the
Nasdaq 100 down almost 10% from the
highs of the last year or so and some
individual names have been hammered.
Microsoft down some 30% from the highs
of last year. Meta hammered yesterday
down 15% so far in March.
>> That was fascinating. It's frankly
breaking below a lot of the technical
trends leading some people to say this
has legs. Is it because of disruption
coming from new technology whether it's
overseas or domestically or is it the
lawsuits with meta coming under pressure
for some of its social media controls.
Tech is maybe the haven but it depends
where you look in tech and that is
increasingly complicated story.
>> It's not just the war you've got to
track is the situation with technology
AI disruption etc. And this in private
markets. Is this a flex from Oaktree
this headline we've just seen? They'll
meet 8.5% of private credit fund
redemptions in full. 100% it's a flex
because that's the headline they want
everyone to see. Apollo, Blue Owl, all
of you people, you guys can cap things
at 5% say oh I'm so responsible. I'm
going to meet it in full and have no
problem with it. So sure, this is
definitely going to be a time where
they're all kind of trolling each other
and this is how I read this headline.
>> More on that story a little bit later
this hour. Equity futures here down a
tenth of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahaira has more. Hey Yahaira.
Good morning John. President Donald
Trump pushing back his deadline for a
deal with Iran saying he will pause
attacks on the country's energy sites
for 10 days. Trump also saying talks
with Tehran are going quote very well.
Iran saying it's waiting on a response
from the US after rejecting its peace
plan and offering its own conditions to
end the war.
A legal victory for Anthropic the maker
of the chatbot Claude winning a court
order blocking a Trump administration
ban on government use of its AI
technology. Anthropic arguing the ban
could cost it billions in lost revenue.
And the Senate passing a bill to end the
Department of Homeland Security
shutdown. The bill still needs to pass
the house and be signed by President
Donald Trump. Ahead of the bill passing
Trump saying he would sign an order to
pay TSA officers. That's the Bloomberg
brief John. Yahaira thank you. More from
Yahaira later this hour. Up next on the
program pushing allies to step up.
Very little of our energy comes through
the Straits of Hormuz. It's the world
that has a great interest in that and so
they should step up and deal with it.
They should be doing something about it.
Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Colonel Wayne Sandos. He joins us next
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
Biggest one-day loss since the war
started in yesterday's session this
morning. No pick up, no bounce. Even as
the president extends talks, he extends
uncertainty for this market. The NASDAQ
is down by 2/10 of 1% and this move
continues. Weak two-year auction, weak
five-year, soft seven-year. Bond yields
up again, two basis points, not the 4%
on twos on 10s. 446 yields right now are
higher now than where they were on
Monday morning before the president
declared there were talks.
>> We're now pricing in a 50% chance of a
rate hike from the Federal Reserve by
October, a 75% chance for an ECB rate
hike, at least one, through the end of
the year. And right now, it's a real
question mark. If this goes on for a
longer period of time, Christine Lagarde
coming out and saying, "We cannot be
humble about our goal." which is getting
inflation down to 2%. So, even if it is
a marginal move higher, we have to take
action. Seeming to confirm the hawkish
bias.
>> It's pretty simple. The longer the talks
go on, the longer the strait is closed.
That's the view of the market right now,
which means crude stays at these levels.
Brent around triple digits, 110, almost
110 this morning. WTI 96.
>> Or the talks are basically just a
distraction because the president of the
United States is making sure that the
right personnel is in place so that he
can open the Strait of Hormuz. But, I
think one thing to really understand is
that even if the US military was able to
open up the Strait of Hormuz, maybe also
with a coalition, the FT is reporting
the UAE would be willing to join this
sort of coalition, it is not going to be
normal flow of traffic in terms of
volume that we are used to. So,
regardless, it is going to be weeks and
months that this is going to be
impacting the energy market.
>> Persistence is the problem. And the
Savannah's this morning pushing allies
to step up.
Very little of our energy comes through
the Strait of Hormuz. It's the world
that has a great interest in that. And
so they should step up and deal with it.
It can be open tomorrow if Iran stops
threatening global shipping, which is an
outrage and a violation of international
law. For all these countries who care
about international law, they should be
doing something about it. There was a
couple of the leaders in Europe who said
that this was not Europe's war. The
United States is constantly being asked
to help in a war and we have more than
any other country. So here's the latest
this morning, Secretary of State Marco
Rubio at the G7 Foreign Ministers
meeting in France with the US seeking
support for opening the Strait of
Hormuz. Bloomberg's Ali Kroc joins us
now for more. Ali, what's the update on
the talks?
Yeah, for the G7 finance minister our
state foreign ministers gathered here.
You have Marco Rubio just in that room
there behind me having discussions with
the foreign ministers of the other G7
nations, but also very interestingly and
very relevantly, the Saudi foreign
minister who is here as well. For them,
you know, there's going to be a
fact-finding mission to get from Marco
Rubio not only what the US war aims are
in Iran. Of course, that has been the
big question for everybody. But also
further to that, what are the specific
things that are being asked of European
allies. We've of course heard from
Donald Trump yesterday saying that NATO
had been effectively useless to them in
the Strait of Hormuz and that he won't
forget it. The question will be
specifically what kinds of things the
Europeans, the G7 can present. What we
understand now is under discussion at a
at a high level is a coalition of more
than 30 countries. We had the NATO
Secretary General Mark Rutte speaking
yesterday about that that would be
involved in some way this coalition of
the willing to open up the Strait of
Hormuz. Now, there's some several
questions attached to that. The first is
willing to do what and willing to do it
when. I've spoken to a number of
officials here including the Canadian
foreign minister, a spokesman for the
French here who had originally floated
this idea of being actively involved in
opening up the Strait of Hormuz and I
couldn't really pin anyone down in terms
of the timing. They say really after the
majority of the war is done, but as you
know, the war doesn't necessarily end
cleanly. I think there's also an effort
here by the Europeans to link the war in
Iran with the war in Ukraine saying that
the Russians sending drones and
intelligence are actively uh targeting
US US troops and US lives. That is a
line they want to draw, but as you say
there John, the the line that Marco
Rubio wants to draw is that everybody's
saying the war in Iran is not our war.
The Americans say Ukraine is not our
war, but we're still helping. Ali, let's
go to catch up. Stay close. We'll catch
up with you later if we see any
headlines. Ali Crooke there on the
ground in France. Joining us now to
extend the conversation. Colonel Wayne
Sanders, senior defense analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Colonel, welcome
to the program. Can we talk about the
potential for a ground operation? Could
you describe what that might look like
and what the objectives would be?
Absolutely. When you think about ground
operations, especially with the limited
number of troops that are on its way, it
is something that would probably be
limited in scope. It's probably, you
know, we look at the two Marine
Expeditionary Units that are on the way.
The first one's coming from the USS
Tripoli should be there over the weekend
and then the USS Boxer in the beginning
of April.
But any any type of insertion, right, is
going to require is going to require air
superiority which we already have. So
you would actually see an uptick in
overflights that would allow for those
type of security operations to make sure
secure passage to go there. Whether or
not they're being airlifted in or
whether or not they're actually going
into the strait. We think about like
Karg Island being one of the areas where
you could potentially see boots on the
ground because it is limited in terms of
its
uh
its mainland Iran status if you will
to be able to go there. But when you
look at this, one thing I do want to
bring up is the difference in troop
numbers that are going over there now
versus previous escalations cuz people
are talking about the ground strike
portion of it. The US troop count when
in Desert Storm was 697,000.
The amount of people at OIF and
Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003 in Iraq,
that was about 160,000. So we're only
talking right now at about 10,000.
Even if you bring in another 10,000,
you're talking about 20,000 total, so a
lot less. So, it would be very, very
surgical in terms of what they're trying
to accomplish. If it's surgical, does
that mean that this wouldn't be a
garrison of troops set up at one of
these islands?
Well, that that's about all you would be
able to do with that, right? Is cuz you
would have to be able to set up enough
security, bring in logistics, refueling,
everything that's required, air defense
assets that you would have to set up to
be able to provide security for those
infantry and Marine Expeditionary Unit
forces to be able to hold that. Uh the
straits are pretty long, so even when
you're looking at where the choke points
are in being able to do that, you still
have to figure out how are you going to
make sure that you can get rid of some
of the asymmetric threats that can show
up with shoulder-fired missiles. Uh
because at this point in time, as you've
seen, is it doesn't matter. It doesn't
have to be a full closing. I I ran at
this point in time is just have to
threaten those attacks and it has
stopped most of the flow. Does the
president's new deadline of April 6th
match up with the ability to get all of
these troops in place?
I I think it does a little bit. His
original deadline of this weekend,
right, was was tied to the Marine
Expeditionary Units coming in. There are
additional capabilities that are coming
in and one of the other things we've
seen President Trump do is he does
doesn't doesn't like to choreograph his
moves. Uh most of the success has come
from ones that hasn't been
choreographed. Operation Midnight
Hammer, nobody knew it was coming and
then uh even when the strikes originally
happened on February 28th, same kind of
thing here is that extension allows him
to have additional options. Even if he
was going to do something with just one
Marine Expeditionary Unit as they come
in or the 82nd Airborne elements of them
that are coming in as well. It gives him
freedom of operations at that point in
time. There are more options available
now as opposed to having to answer to a
deadline that was set for this weekend.
Colonel, I appreciate your time.
Fantastic framing. Colonel Wayne Sands
there of Bloomberg Intelligence. We've
talked repeatedly through this week
about two-way risk. The two-way risk
persists. Even though there was a
dialing down of the temperature, and
this is the key point. A question of
even if you don't necessarily have this
a bimodal outcome over the weekend,
there still is a feeling that we don't
have a sense of resolution. Why would
anyone take big risk at this moment,
especially with the lingering after
effects?
>> to remember he turned up the temperature
to begin with. The original threat came
from the US side to blow energy plants
in Iran. And that moved from
an immediate threat to a 5-day period of
talks, and that's now moved to a 10-day
period of talks taking us to April 6th.
So, you can turn the volume down all you
like. This market's been focused on one
thing obsessively. The volume of traffic
going through the Strait of Hormuz, what
it means for production in the Middle
East, the damage done there, too. And if
this persists, this story doesn't
change, it gets worse. And frankly, that
is exactly why this is so different than
what we saw during Liberation Day,
because you could turn the temperature
back down and it wasn't the Strait of
Hormuz, and it wasn't a physical goods.
The fact that now UAE and Saudi Arabia
are coming out and saying, "You better
not leave and then leave this quagmire
with us to deal with." Gives you a sense
of how this could develop.
>> this morning, two Chinese vessels tried
to go through and had to make a U-turn.
If you're hoping for a change for the
better, you're not seeing one right now.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Kevin Burke of ClearView Energy
Partners with oil rising as traders
brace for a longer war. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
So, we had a self-imposed deadline and
the president has delayed 10 more days
of talks. The price action might not be
what you expected. This is seen as 10
more days of uncertainty, 10 more days
at least of the Strait of Hormuz being
effectively closed. Equity futures on
the S&P down by 10th of 1% following the
biggest 1-day slide we've seen so far
throughout this month, throughout this
war. In the bond market, 2-year,
10-year, 30-year yields making new highs
for the year. The two-year not the 4%
10s at 446 and up four basis points on
the front end of the curve up by two.
And this is following some pretty soft
auctions for the week so far.
>> Yeah, and Russ Koestrich said it
perfectly, which is you can't hedge
anywhere. And it hasn't been a hedge in
the two-year yield. It hasn't been a
hedge in the five-year yield. And in
this in the five seven-year yield, when
we got the auction yesterday, the
similar kind of messiness, albeit even
less actually ironically than the two
and the five-year.
The 60/40 portfolio, worst monthly
performance right now going back to
2022.
>> You don't need crude to go up a lot from
here. Crude just holding on to these
levels
causes its own problems. And we're
holding on to these levels, 110 on
Brent, 96 on WTI. That's a problem. Once
again, the P word, it persists. It
persists, and it is a problem cuz this
is a global market. I was struck
yesterday by the Treasury Secretary
saying the global oil market is well
supplied. Well, if it's so well
supplied, then why are we taking all
these extreme measures? Why are
developed countries having to go into
their stockpiles and release? And why is
the president threatening all these
troops to open up the Strait of Hormuz?
Because it is priced globally, and right
now, yes, the United States is dealing
with this, but if this persists, a lot
of issues are going to be prolonged, and
it's not just crude. Fertilizer. You
have to make these orders in the next
five to six days, and we are reliant 20%
on imports of key fertilizer
ingredients.
>> There's a lot of options on the table
heading into April 6th as we count you
down to the open in about three hours
away. Let's get you some morning movers,
some single names. Yohana has more. Hi,
Yohana. Hi, John. We start there with
oil with the US energy producer
Battalion up 14% in the premarket as it
tracks another rise in oil prices. And I
thought Deutsche Bank put it best this
morning saying that while President
Trump's 10-day delay for strikes may
ease immediate risk, there's still no
clear path to a resolution with Iran.
So, that is keeping supply concerns
front and center and benefiting these
domestic oil stocks. Uh and it's not
just oil, gold moving higher as well and
that is benefiting mining stocks like
Highcroft up 2% in the pre-market. And
what's notable here is that during this
conflict, we have seen oil and gold
moving in opposite directions, but today
we are seeing them move in lockstep,
both rising. And we end on AstraZeneca,
those shares up 3.8% in the pre-market
after late-stage data showed its drug to
treat a deadly lung disease uh helped
alleviate uh helped alleviate symptoms.
And analysts say that this one drug
could bring in nearly $1 billion
in annual sales for the company. So,
shares up on that news. John. Yohai,
thank you. I appreciate the update. More
from Yohai in just a moment. On our
radar this morning, President Trump
extending his deadline for striking
Iranian energy sites for 10 days. In a
social media post, the president writing
talks are quote going very well. Tehran
itself says it's not negotiating with
Washington. The White House considering
sending 10,000 more soldiers to the
Middle East. A senior US defense
official reportedly saying the forces
would be in addition to thousands of
Marines and paratroopers already
deployed to the region. And finally, the
Senate passing legislation early this
morning to fund most of DHS. The deal
approving funding for the TSA, but not
for ICE. The budget impasse jamming
airports and disrupting travel around
the country. The measure heading to the
House for a vote as soon as today. And
really the issue for me is does this
actually matter? Given the fact that
President Trump has already ordered that
they get paid out of a discretionary
fund. Has in some ways Congress
absconded its its function once again to
the president who is superseding them as
they wait to vote on this measure. I
just wonder how much pushback they get
because suddenly there is more time that
they potentially could continue
negotiating this given that perhaps TSA
agents are already going to be paid.
>> Two things stood out for me. One, if the
president had this authority and found
these funds, why didn't he do it weeks
ago before we lost all these people at
TSA, before TSA workers were not getting
paid? How difficult is that to
continuously miss paychecks? I'll tell
you this, lawmakers aren't missing
paychecks. And two,
>> And that cutting lines.
>> Yes, and they're Yes, exactly. And GOP
leaders have for weeks resisting
Democratic calls to say, "Let's just do
a deal. Let's pay TSA and let's come
back to the table and discuss what's
going on for ICE and CBP." They said no.
They said no. They said no. And guess
what? Last night at 3:00 a.m. when we're
all waking up, they're voting for it.
>> I don't know why politicians in
Washington don't realize the following.
They play this game where they want to
make it about Republicans versus
Democrats. If you're in that line, you
just hate Washington. You just despise
Congress. And you see this in poll after
poll. There's one great poll about the
handling of the economy. Are you happy
with the handling of the economy by the
president right now? And you're seeing
in that poll, no, people aren't happy.
Then you'll ask them, "Do you think that
the Democrats would handle it even
better?" And they'll say, "No." In the
very same poll. The consequence of this
mess is not one wins versus the other.
People just turn against Congress and
the politicians representing them.
Everybody loses, essentially, is the way
that this works. People lose politically
and people lose when they try to travel
anywhere. One individual who went down
to Washington D.C. to discuss with them
this, who actually is in the industry,
asked them, "Why don't you just pass
this bill, get TSA agents paid, resolve
this issue, you guys can scrabble
fight over everything else?" What they
said was, "Nothing gets done if we
remove this point of leverage." It's
very honest, but my goodness, it does
not read well in the society.
>> Not good at all, is it? Not good at all.
Let's focus on crude, pushing high once
again with no off-ramp in sight for the
war in Iran. Kevin Book of ClearView
Energy Partners writing the blockage of
crude through the Strait of Hormuz could
be more than offset by SPR releases in
the Americas, but inventory levels in
Europe could drop if current conditions
persist. Kevin joins us now for more.
Kevin, welcome to the program. This
situation does persist. So, let's
assume, and it is an assumption, things
can change. It's a self-imposed
deadline. But, if this continues through
to, say, April 6th, what would that mean
for this energy market?
John, good to see you. Look, we've got
10 more days for inventories to decline.
The cold mathematics of inventory
depletion are much like the cold
mathematics of viral replication. If you
go back to COVID, the problem was
building around the world markets, and
really America missed it. And it's going
to catch us. Well, how much drawdown
could the United States continue to do
without going back and refilling the
SPR?
There's room for the SPR to come down
further, but not much room. Uh and part
of that's got to do with legislation and
the ability to draw further under
emergency conditions versus
non-emergency conditions. Part of that's
got to do with the practicality of the
SPR. Having it available for big crises
means you want to keep some in reserve.
If this isn't over in 10 days, maybe you
want it around longer. Kevin, if the US
administration knew that this was a
possibility, and it always was. The
president, I remember a year ago talking
to him about this. He prefers a
diplomatic route, but he was steadfast.
Iran will never get a nuclear weapon.
He's willing to deal with them the hard
way. Why were they not refilling the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve?
As you know very well on this network,
the Secretary of Energy asked for $20
billion, or at least moved to the
proposition last year. And in what was
probably the most catastrophic
mispricing of risk in recent
congressional history, they gave him
$171 million.
So, without money, you can't refill the
reserve.
When it comes to the OECD stocks, how
does that actually impact the price of
oil?
There's a very strong inverse
correlation between OECD petroleum
inventories and the front-run Brent
Brent crude price. And it's one of the
relationships you can count on for a
reason. When there's less oil in stocks,
if it can't come out of inventories, and
it can't come out of the ground, and
can't come out of the straight, where's
it going to come from? Prices go up. Is
this an oil problem, Kevin, or are we
overplaying the oil aspect of this and
underplaying the natural gas aspect?
I think the natural gas aspect is pretty
significant at the margins. It's easy to
overlook it in sort of the total energy
picture. And frankly, the two are
related in a very significant sense. 4%
of the world's energy consumption in
terms of oil and gas bottled up in the
strait right now means that there's
substitution fuel
pursuits happening all over the world.
In the last crisis 4 years ago, we went
from missing gas westbound into Europe
drawing liquids demand from petroleum
for generation in Asia. Now those
liquids aren't available, either.
We do see that that the United States
has been ramping up the production of
liquefied natural gas and had previously
been exporting a growing proportion to
Europe in particular to offset the
decline coming from Russia. How much do
you see that continuing versus maybe a
little bit of restraint on that front as
natural gas prices in the US also climb?
Well, they haven't climbed very much and
I think that's one of the significant
takeaways of the LNG story here in the
United States. There's still a great
deal of
missing connectivity that would provide
for those prices to rise. There has to
be some way to expand volumes in
response to the deficit in global
markets for there to be that kind of
price response and even then, we have a
very flat supply curve. I think that
when you look at importing governments,
they're all going to be asking one
question after this and that question
is, how can we make sure this never
happens again? One answer is to
diversify sources and routes. To the
extent that routes are the solution, the
United States can provide an answer.
That's certainly going to take time.
Kevin, I want to finish on this. Just a
piece of scenario analysis, if you will.
If there is a grand operation to take
Kharg Island to try and reopen the
Strait of Hormuz, how do you suspect the
futures curve would price that? Would it
begin to price in a resolution to this
war? Would it drag prices lower or push
prices up?
I think we have to ask what what the
Iranian repost would to would be to
that, John. And I think the answer might
be that they'll look westward at those
cargoes going to the Red Sea, and maybe
we see an activation of the Houthis in
the next leg up in risk. So, I'm not
sure that's the answer we'll see in the
market.
>> I understand why you think prices will
go. Kevin, thank you, sir. Kevin Book
there at ClearView Energy Partners,
because if the Houthis get involved,
we've got another problem.
>> Yeah, and yesterday I thought that it
was fascinating, the interview that H M
H did. The indication that right now
Saudi Arabia is paying off the Houthis
not to interfere with the Red Sea
passageway gives you a sense of, you
know, the rule by mob that seems to be
going on over there.
>> But that could change, because obviously
their biggest beneficiary is the
Iranians, and at some point the Iranians
could say, "We need to escalate this. We
want to put the pressure up even higher.
We want to move crude prices closer to a
very painful threshold for this White
House." And he could tell them to get
involved, and all you need is one drone,
one speedboat at the Bab el Mandeb
Strait, and this East-West pipeline that
Saudi Arabia has been using to move
three, four, five million barrels a day,
that crude all gets stuck. Brent crude
right now. Brent 110, WTI 96. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohai Rapaport has
more. Hey, Yohai. Hi, John.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio meeting
with his G7 counterparts in France.
Rubio may have a hard time gaining
support from US allies a day after
President Trump complained about NATO
countries not stepping up to help with
the war in Iran.
Nicolas Maduro appearing in a Manhattan
federal court yesterday. You can see the
court sketches there. The US is pushing
ahead with a broad drug trafficking and
narcoterrorism conspiracy case against
the ousted Venezuelan leader.
And Oaktree Capital Management is
meeting all redemption requests for one
of its private credit funds. According
to a regulatory filing, the company is
allowing investors to take out 8 and
1/2% of net assets from its strategic
credit fund, which is equivalent to
around $400 million.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohana, thank you. The ultimate flex.
Brahma was talking about it earlier.
Everything just feels like a marketing
campaign right now. They're all throwing
shade at each other in private markets.
>> an opportunity for people to potentially
gain market share and to show who the
bad apples are and that they're the good
ones. To me, this is saying you have to
cap it, we don't, we're good.
>> The out three flex early on this
morning. Equity futures right now in the
S&P negative by third of 1% up next the
inflation warnings piling up.
Moreover, the conflict in the Middle
East raises additional risks. I still
see underlying inflation as as as
gradually moving down.
>> The inflation risk is greater right now
as a as a result of the Iran war. We'll
get to that divide in just a moment with
Joe Davis of Vanguard.
Uncertainty extended equity futures down
by third of 1% on the S&P following the
biggest one-day slide on the S&P 500 so
far this month since the war started.
The S&P at the lowest level we've seen
since early September. On the Nasdaq,
we're down another 0.5% and the Nasdaq
100 very, very close to correction
territory down almost 10% from the high
of the last 12 months. In the bond
market, new highs for this year, twos,
tens, 30s, tens 446 up five basis
points, too. Up by three basis points to
4.01%.
This is the pain trade for me, Brahma.
This is the pain trade for me. We've
flipped from easing to tightening over
at all these central banks, the Fed, the
ECB, the Bank of England. And in this
market, when you speak to anyone in
fixed income, they talk about the value
created in the yield curve and the
opportunity to step in. There's so much
doubt about this persisting, which makes
it so much more painful. If it continues
to go up, and what you did see last week
in this past week, long-term bonds have
seen their second largest ever
withdrawal. Their biggest withdrawal
going back to March 2020. This is
according to EPFR and Bank of America
data. And Michael Hartnett over at Bank
of America said, "Expect policy panic to
avoid recession." Guess what? He's
looking for that yield curve steepener
as a result of the fiscal response to
avoid any kind of serious economic
downturn. This is the potential pain
trade that you're talking about.
>> Check out crude, Brent and WTI. There's
three scenarios here, and we usually
only talk about two of them. And these
are the two, the two-way risk that crude
crashes from here on the back of a
resolution, or things escalate and crude
spikes to 150. What about the problems
caused by just staying around these
levels?
And that's the conversation I think we
have to have this morning as we talk
down another 10 days of talks between
the US and Iran and Brent crude around
110. Well, it's going to be very
complicated, and not really as much for
the United States as is the rest of the
world. You're already seeing some
countries like the Philippines saying
this is a state of emergency. Asia is
still the front lines of this crisis
when it comes to the energy shock,
telling people work from home, take
carpools. And then it's really going to
start to hit Europe. And that's going to
be a big problem, and I'm sure Secretary
Rubio is hearing about it right now in
France at the G7.
>> Brent crude 110.50, WTI north of 96. On
the Savannah this morning, inflation
warnings piling up.
Moreover, the conflict in the Middle
East raises additional risks.
Higher oil prices tend to pass through
pretty quickly to gasoline prices.
And higher gasoline prices can be
particularly be
>> I still see underlying inflation as as
as gradually moving down Uh toward
towards target over the next, you know,
sort of
12 months. I would argue that the
inflation risk is greater right now as a
as a result of the Iran war. So, here's
the latest this morning. Federal Reserve
officials raising concerns about the
impact of the Iran war on inflation.
Treasury yields setting new highs for
the year as investors shift expected
expectations from rate cuts to possible
hikes. Joe Davis of Vanguard writing the
key indicators I'm watching are twofold.
One is clearly just the labor market.
The second has always been a wild card,
the price of oil. Joe joins us now for
more. Joe, welcome to the program. Two
time horizons. Let's start with the
first, quite short term. Want to start
with the March data and the April data.
What are you expecting to see in the
March and April data?
Well, we're going to continue to see
inflation that's that's somewhat
stubborn. I mean, if you look back over
2 years, you know, obviously some
progress, but our our theme going into
the year before the events
in the in just in the Middle East was
that the Federal Reserve was going to be
a little bit challenged to deliver in
the cuts expected because a little bit
of stubbornness in inflation. And so,
you know, again, that's before oil has
moved. So, uh we're going to see mixed
uh signals. Um and some of that is dated
given uh what we're seeing in the oil
markets. Joe, in line with that, how do
you expect central bank communication to
adapt, to evolve between now and the
April meeting?
Well, I think we're starting to see it.
You're going to have to talk tough on
inflation. This is a you know, central
banks, generally speaking, have some
scar tissue uh going back several years.
And so, the I think the tougher you
talk, the less you actually have to do.
And um I think that's where we're at. Um
I think you're going to have to address
the fact that although inflate, you
know, the oil spike will push up
inflation, push down growth, uh you have
to focus on the former, not the latter
uh just from a risk management
perspective. Um Uh I don't see the
Federal Reserve hiking uh anytime soon
just because of the of the concur you
know cross currents that are doing labor
market but uh nevertheless uh this this
notion of easing significantly because
of the down draft in the the economy you
got to be careful with that timing even
if that would ever happen because we
need to see a lot of events unfold
before we under you know before we go
down that path. And Joe this is the
reason why uh when John says what if oil
prices just stay around here potentially
that could be one of the more toxic
scenarios for central banks because they
may have to respond more to ongoing
inflationary pressure with growth
continuing to hang in there at least
reduced but at least positive. How do
you see the Fed responding to oil prices
staying here versus spiking higher or
going back down?
I think that's the most interesting
dynamic what your conversation is this
morning because obviously if it if it if
it collapses we have obviously a risk on
and and you know this is more of a of a
return to other factors that we were
watching. Obviously 150 uh a price of
oil per barrel starts to bring in the
recession risk much more prominently but
it's a a persistent round $100 you have
to redo the calculus. Uh I think that
now that is a Federal Reserve that is
very much on hold uh and is not going to
get the disinflationary fact uh that you
were banking on and so I think that
that's the more interesting scenario and
I and I think that should be you know
more seriously considered than perhaps
even the other two for the time being.
What do you think the bond market right
now is pricing in given the fact that
we've had a repricing across the curve?
Yes there has been a curve flattening
short end yields have risen more than
long end yields but long end yields
continuing to sell off with some
auctions that represent real weakness.
Is this people who are gaming out growth
rate hikes that persist stagflationary
types of situations?
I it is doing both. I mean we got a
little fiscal in the in the background
at the long end of the curve, but it is
really oil. Does it dominate on the
growth side or on the inflation side?
And again, I think there's a really
healthy debate. I mean, we're talking
about it this morning, three scenarios,
not one. And so, you're going to get
really some some volatility
on the yield curve. I think the
intermediate part of the curve probably
looks the most attractive and and
potentially safest if you talk to our
fixed income team. So, again, I think
it's it's it's it's premature to talk
about a Fed easing because the oil hit
takes down growth. Just given what we've
been and the fact is inflation is not
super high, but it's above target and
you have to reflect that in your timing
even if you're bearish in oil going much
higher. In the meantime, how isolated is
the US economy from the rest of the
world? A lot of economists have come on
and said that Europe faces a real
problem, Asia faces a real problem. The
US is somewhat insulated because growth
has been at a higher pace, you have the
tech impulse.
Is that sustainable?
Uh it it it it is. Again, it all depends
upon where oil goes. What we would need
to see to have really a downdraft in
growth are really two things. It's not
just the price of oil, which we all feel
at the gas pump, but it's also the fact
that we would need to see financial
conditions really weaken. So, the equity
market here is actually the wildcard.
The equity market would have to start
pricing in downdraft in earnings
significantly so that it would pull back
some of the business investment and and
high-end consumer spending. It would
have to shake confidence of CEOs and and
and on the consumer side to really, you
know, cuz those are the two really two
strong foundations for the US economy,
hence your point. So, again, you would
have to see that foundation really
become rocky before we start to start
and talk about Fed easing here. Hey,
Joe. It's good to see you. Thoughtful
stuff and lots to think about. Joe Davis
there at Vanguard on this economy and
energy prices. Central bankers know what
to do in extreme situation.
When you hit extremes, central bankers
will know what to do. If you gap lower
on crude, and you crash back down to 50,
60, opens the door to cuts. If you spike
higher to 150, pushing 200, they'll
start worrying about growth. Mike Gapen
and Morgan Stanley will break this down
for us a little bit later. If you
persist at these levels,
they're stuck and they don't know what
to do. We see this time and time again
with the central banker. If you throw a
recession at them, it's obvious what
that central banker is going to do. You
throw the middle ground at them, things
get complicated.
>> Morgan Stanley, I'm glad you brought
them up. They're the ones that say this
is $100 to $110 a barrel. That kind of
range leaves rate hikes back on the
table, and potentially, certainly no
move from the Federal Reserve based on
the ongoing inflationary pressure
without that hit to growth. That to me
is the most interesting situation, as
Joe Davis said, and frankly, is one that
this market is trying to grapple with.
>> Can we see a Federal Reserve that has to
quickly hike rates to then get a growth
shock, and then unwind them, all while
they have a leadership change at this at
the top? I'm still confused about who
will be running the Federal
>> Reserve come May 16th.
>> You're not alone. Is it going to be
Kevin Walsh? Is Chairman Powell going to
be around for the rest of the year?
Based on how things are trending right
now, I'm not sure Chairman Powell wants
to be around for the rest of the year,
based on where things are headed. Yeah,
he would like to have this wrapped up. I
think there is a sense of confusion
about why there wasn't just an easy out
taken, so we could resolve the subpoena,
the investigation, and get on with it.
Nonetheless, clearly the lack of clarity
around the Fed reaction function, adding
to the volatility that we're seeing in
bond markets and some of the messy
auctions that we saw this week.
>> Yields up this morning by two basis
points on twos north of 4%, on tens
north of 440 with crude right now, 110
on Brent, on WTI 97. Coming up next,
we'll catch up with Bob Michael of JP
Morgan Asset Management, Torbjörn Moger
of Wolfe Research, the ECB Governing
Council member Pierre Wunsch, and Sonu
Desai of Franklin Templeton Fixed
Income. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is just around the corner
as the uncertainty persists for global
markets as the president extends talks
for another 10 days between the US and
Iran.
We're ready to start to see that that
energy price shock feeding through in
the March data. It could create some
real challenges for the economy.
>> The central banks are in a in a tough
spot.
>> They need to continue to focus, you
know, very closely on on the data as it
evolves. I am concerned about the fiscal
outlook. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action and scores look
like this. Negative 0.4 on the S&P
following the biggest one-day sell-off
so far this month on the S&P 500. We sit
here now at the lowest level since early
September. Coming into Friday morning,
the losses continue down by 0.6 on the
Nasdaq and in the bond market unlocking
high yields on twos, 10s, 30s. New highs
for the year. 446 right now on 10s and
in the commodity market crude drifting
higher. It persists and it's persistence
that we need to talk about. Brent crude
at 111, WTI at 97. The president saying
this, "Please let this statement serve
to represent that I am pausing the
period of energy plant destruction by 10
days to Monday."
This market is not celebrating the
removal of near-term escalation risk.
This market is wrestling with the
extension of uncertainty to Monday,
April 6th, 2026. This isn't a a market
that can embrace a taco trade, the
so-called Trump always chickens out and
he can reverse course. Partly because he
can't. This is a now multi-party
conflict that's dealing with physical
assets being shipped. It is a Strait of
Hormuz, this key waterway, and a
question of who's going to ultimately
control this. And frankly, this
discussion is coming given the reporting
that we have right now with tens of
thousands of troops lining up to
potentially make their way. This raises
a question of what it's going to take to
de-escalate, and whether the persistence
has already gone on long enough to
create some real damage. That's a key
point. Two Marine Expeditionary Units
are already in route. And then on top of
that, we have the 82nd Airborne Division
that has already been deployed. And then
on top of that, The Wall Street Journal
this morning talking about the fact that
the DOD is weighing whether or not to
send 10,000 additional ground troops. So
while the market is digesting the fact
that this might be prolonged and the
president's kicking the can in terms of
these talks, at the same time there's
reporting that there is serious concern
and discussions about the decision being
finally made that this is actually going
to escalate in a serious manner with
more personnel on the ground.
>> Kicking the can does not provide relief
anymore. Kicking the can for a market
looking for a resolution is not going to
provide comfort. When you kick the can,
you're guaranteeing the strait will
remain closed. You're almost
guaranteeing the crude will hover around
triple digits. And that's the additional
scenario we're talking about throughout
the program so far. We've been going
back and forth on this. We've been
talking about the two-way risk. It's
resolved. Talks are a success or
escalation. Things get a whole lot
worse, and you start hitting energy
plants across the country. They
retaliate across the gulf. There's a
middle ground. This just continues,
lingers. The strait remains closed. You
hold onto triple digits in crude, and
that causes its own problems.
>> It's not exactly a growth shock to the
same degree that say $150 a barrel would
be for the United States. It's not an
all clear as you would going back to $65
would be as Russ Koesterich of BlackRock
said, and I think it was a really good
point. Nothing is working in this
backdrop. There is no haven trade. It is
not gold. It is not bonds, it is not
stocks, it is not even, as we saw
yesterday, some of the tech stocks. So,
what does an investor do with what looks
increasingly like a stagflationary type
of backdrop? And Tehran did not take
that true social post as a moment to
maybe have a reach out to the Pakistanis
and say, "Yeah, you know what? We will
come to the table. This has been
challenging for us. Our entire top-level
brass of individuals governing this
regime have been taken out and
targeted." Nope. What do you have today?
You have missiles over Riyadh. You have
the strait effectively once again
closed. IRGC turning back three
container vessels in Hormuz this
morning. They even made an abrupt
U-turn. Chinese vessels made an abrupt
U-turn. Wasn't able to get through
safely. At this point, TankerTrackers
says that at this rate, only two tankers
a day on average go through the Strait
of Hormuz. Far cry from the more than
100 a day we saw before this war.
>> Yeah, and these headlines from the Saudi
defense minister from moments ago aren't
going to help things. They're pledging
to escalate and expand the attacks on
Iran, saying the escalation would be in
response to Iran targeting civilians.
That's the escalation we're looking for.
And as you've reminded us repeatedly,
this is not just a war between Iran and
the United States. There's other actors
involved here as well.
>> It's Israel, it's the UAE, which came up
with an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal
saying, "Hey, this is getting really
annoying to us. We want to offer some
deterrents." You're getting Saudi Arabia
involved, too. This is a much more
complicated backdrop.
>> Futures near session lows on the equity
market on the S&P 500 negative hit by
0.5%.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Bob Michele of JP Morgan Asset
Management. With crude holding on to
triple digits, the ECB Governing Council
member Pierre Wunsch joins us on the
potential for rate hikes. And Sonu Desai
of Franklin Templeton with the bond
market on very shaky ground. We begin
this hour with the bond market
struggling as crude hovers near 110. Bob
Michele of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, "Central banks are all in a
terrible position. Overall, the bond
market continues to struggle to manage
this inflation shock, and it's testing
reaction functions." Bob joins us now
for more. Bob, good morning. Yeah, happy
to be here.
>> Good to see you, buddy. And first of
all, congratulations, Mr. $1 trillion
man. Yeah, thank you.
>> 1 trillion in AUM, and I know what a
team you have.
>> business is doing well.
>> That has been Fixed income itself is not
doing well. Not today. So, let's talk
about that. What's behind the shakiness
and the fragility in Fixed Income? Well,
I think there are a couple things. I
think, first of all, you're right, the
bond market is pricing in the worst of
all scenarios, which is the
administration is desperately looking
for an off-ramp, and there is none
available. They're not going to cede
sovereignty and control of the Strait of
Hormuz to Iran. So, if Iran doesn't give
them a palatable off-ramp, then
escalation is the only path forward. I
think the second thing that the bond
market is dealing with is we came out of
the FOMC meeting a week and a half ago
with the FOMC more concerned about the
labor market than inflation. They had
rate cuts still priced in for this year
and next year. They were willing to look
through it, and now you're hearing more
hawkish uh tones coming out of the FOMC,
particularly from Waller, who's right.
It's not just about energy. You have to
think about fertilizers, the planting
season in the US and across the world,
and could that ultimately pass through
to finished goods and prices?
>> We've caught up with your team a few
times over the past few weeks. Katie
Pryor, Ken C., they've all said
something similar, that we're unlocking
value here in bonds, that yields are
higher than they should introduce
demand. But we haven't seen that at
auctions this week, and I think people
have found that surprising. Two-year,
five-year, seven-year auctions soft. Why
do you think that is? Who's not turning
up to these auctions that would
typically turn up and buy these bonds?
Uh because things seem to be in a free
fall, you don't want to catch a falling
knife. You do get concerned that there
is an inflation problem that becomes
broader down the road. just stand out of
the way,
keep positions that you're comfortable
with riding through this. Let the market
wash itself out. That's always been the
best thing to do. And if it's at levels
that you want to add to positions, then
sure, go ahead and lengthen duration,
add to a bit of credit. Right now, we're
still not expecting recession. You have
to go well north of $120 a barrel for
recession. So, in the meantime, just let
the markets go to wherever they're
going.
>> Is it a trade though, or is it a
technical issue with a question about
some of the central banks, whether in
Japan, whether in the Middle East, that
are needing to raise money right now to
support fiscal efforts that need to do
things like sell gold as we've seen? Is
that part of what's behind some of these
auctions that have gotten somewhat
messy?
Um
I think it's a technical washing out of
positions right now, that everyone got
crowded into a few trades. The central
banks would eventually be cutting rates.
All you have to do is actually look at
gold. This is the absolute ideal
environment for gold. It's the safe
haven,
it's the risk-off, and it's the
inflation hedge. All of those things
should have pushed gold up from call it
5,000 to 6,000 if it were fairly priced.
It was an overcrowded trade. There's
exiting from overcrowded trades. You
talked about the lack of a safe haven.
There is one. It's Treasury bills.
Treasury bills, but not long duration.
And this is I find very interesting
given the fact that a lot of people are
saying that this is a Fed that's going
to be more hawkish. The implication
should be if you have belief in the
Federal Reserve, that that should lower
inflation over time. That should reduce
growth over time. That should reduce
your appetite for longer-term bonds. Why
is it not working that way this time?
Well, it it is working because if you
look at forward curves, the one-year
one-year forward or the five-year
five-year forward, actually those yields
have come down a little bit. So, as more
hawkish rhetoric has come out of the
Federal Reserve,
long-term inflation expectations are a
bit more anchored than they were a week
or so ago. Inflation expectations, but
not the bond yields. That's That's what
I'm talking about. It was just sort of
the fiscal response.
>> Well, there is the painful path from
here to there. The hawkish expectations
lead to higher rates, which then dampen
aggregate final demand a bit more, and
that ultimately uh cools off. Bob,
you're talking about the recessionary
level of oil around $120 a barrel.
That's where the physical market is,
well above that. At some point, Brent
will potentially, if this is protracted,
catch up. The futures market will catch
up to that physical market, and that
might be sooner than people expect. What
happens then?
Well, the data we're going to see over
the next couple weeks is is going to
give us a lot of information,
particularly next week when we look at
the labor market data, because it won't
fully have the conflict priced into it.
Um it will still be somewhat clean, and
if it's softer, it's telling you that
actually the labor market wasn't on firm
footing heading into all of this. If
you're a business and you're already
struggling with trying to understand
what tariffs you're going to pay, what
the impact of AI is to your labor force,
and you've paused hiring, now you have
higher input costs, and you're concerned
about demand destruction, are you really
going to go ahead and do some hiring?
Our expectation is it's already starting
to bite in the real economy.
>> This all sounds super gloomy, so we
finish with some optimism. Sure. Torsten
Slok of Apollo just published. Check
this out. Markets are overreacting to
what will likely be a four to six-week
period of volatility, which will
ultimately result in 50 years of
stability in all markets, supply chains,
and geopolitics. Torsten, just moments
ago.
>> Yeah, the headline of this is sentiment
destruction, not demand destruction.
Always watch what they do, not what they
say. Given the fact that people are
feeling so nervous since they have to go
out and shop to make themselves feel
better and travel a lot more. He talked
about how that this shock is not enough
to eliminate the tailwinds to the US
economy, and that is the reason why so
many people have said, "Actually, the US
turns out to be more of a haven right
now in all of its assets because of that
tailwind, because of its ability to
still grow."
>> The tailwinds being high spending, the
industrial renaissance, and the one big
beautiful bill. Bob, can you envision a
better world 12 months out? Looking back
12 months 12 months out and just saying
this is a 4 to 6-week period of
volatility. I can see us getting beyond
this at some point. We keep going back
to 20% of oil passes through the Strait
of Hormuz. Why didn't oil go from 60 to
$72 a barrel? So, Torsten's right,
there's some emotion in this.
Um whether it's troops on the ground or
there are some sort of peace accord,
we'll eventually get to the other side
of this. I don't know that I want to
look out a year, but I'll look out into
the midterm elections. I think uh no
holds will be barred into the midterm
elections, and what is that, 8 months
away? And what do you mean by that, Bob?
What do you think is going to happen?
Yeah, sure. I think when you look at the
administration, they have to do whatever
is possible to ensure that unemployment
stays low. They've got to go back to
affordability issues, particularly
housing. You've got a new Fed chair
sitting. You do have the tailwinds of
the one big beautiful bill act. You do
have all the CapEx because AI is real,
businesses know that. So, you don't want
to get too gloomy in here. That's why I
said you just want to stay out of the
way of this. See where it washes out. I
think it's more technical than anything
right now. Our bias is to add when we
reach firmer footing. It certainly feels
painful right now with the 10-year at
446 and up another five basis points on
the session. Bob, good to see you. And
congrats once again. Thanks for being
here. Bob Michele there at JP Morgan
Asset Management on a very shaky bond
market for the week so far. Yeah, and
you're talking about how it's a
technical washout and that longer-term
bonds are the haven. You talked about
T-bills, not necessarily longer out the
yield curve, not now anyway. Michael
Hartnett, I keep going back to this
expecting policy panic to support the
economy heading into those midterms. I
just wonder how much that's part of the
reason why people don't want to go long
long bonds right now. If there's policy
panic that comes in to flood the market.
>> coming on the program and advocating for
T-bills, you know it's a stressful
moment, right?
Certainly a stressful moment. You know,
you're also getting good yields, so I
can understand it and you are seeing
some inflows into that area.
>> Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hi
Yohara. Hi John.
President Donald Trump pushing back his
deadline for a deal with Iran saying he
will pause a tax on the country's energy
sites for 10 days. Trump also saying
talks with Tehran are going quote very
well. Iran says it's waiting on a
response from the US after rejecting its
peace plan and offering its own
conditions to end the war.
Israel not planning to wind down its
military strategy against Iran. Defense
Minister Israel Katz saying moments ago
attacks will escalate and expand to
additional targets and areas important
to the regime. Katz saying he and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had warned
Iran against attacking civilians, but
the firing has continued.
And here's another jab. JP Morgan is
planning a new private credit fund that
will allow investors to redeem 7 and
1/2% per quarter. According to the
prospectus, the fund will invest at at
least 80% will invest at least 80% in
credit including a substantial portion
in private credit as well as publicly
traded loans. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Yeah, Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai
later this hour. Up next on the program,
making time for a deal.
Should Iran be able to charge a toll for
the Strait of Hormuz?
They're charging some vessels to go
through.
>> Oh, yeah. Uh
well, should they be able to? You know,
I mean, they shouldn't be able to. All I
can tell you is they're begging to make
a deal. We'll talk about that next with
Tobin Marcus of Wolfe Research. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
The self-imposed deadline has been
extended. Diplomatic efforts continue
between the US and Iran, we're told.
That continues, and this continues, too.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 pulling
back by 0.5% on the Nasdaq, down by 0.6,
adding to some big losses yesterday. The
biggest one-day loss we've seen so far
this month. The S&P 500 closing
yesterday at the lowest we've seen since
early September. In the bond market,
that risk aversion unlocking higher
yields, not lower yields. The source of
the disruption in the bond market around
4% on twos, 446 on 10s, pushed higher by
this move in crude. The move persists.
Triple digits. Brent crude, 111. WTI,
97.
>> And you've heard a slew of central
bankers come out and say they are
worried about inflation. They have to be
vigilant, and they have to get inflation
back down to 2% given that it has been
more than 5 years since we've hit that
target. We're we're pricing a Fed
response function. We're pricing the
ECB.
>> It's a lot of uncertainty hanging over
this market through to at least,
potentially, April 6th. Under Savannah's
this morning, making time for a deal.
Should Iran be able to charge a toll for
the Strait of Hormuz?
They're charging some vessels to go
through.
>> Oh, yeah. Uh
well, should they be able to?
I mean, they shouldn't be able to.
But they're doing it a little bit. I
don't look look, their capability is a
less than it was 2 weeks ago.
Uh and with every week and every day,
frankly, it gets less and less.
All I can tell you is they're begging to
make a deal. So, let's see what happens.
The President of the United States
extending talks with Iran for 10 more
days. The President saying talks with
Tehran are going very well. Jonathan
Tamari of Bloomberg Government joins us
now for more. Jonathan, welcome to the
program. We're tracking two things. One,
the talks, the status of them, and two,
troop movement. Jonathan, what do we
know about both this morning?
Yeah, the the state of the talks it
depends on what you're listening to
publicly, privately. Publicly, you know,
Iran says that that there's not
progress. The President says there is,
that they're desperate to make a deal.
Uh obviously, both sides are posturing
there. And yes, there are reports that
there are additional troops now moving
into the region. And there's a lot of
concern within Congress, I would say,
about what that means uh given that
Congress has had really no say on this
fight so far. And the addition of ground
troops would be a significant red line,
I think, for a lot of members of
Congress, including some Republicans.
>> Do you think they're in a position to
stop it?
Not right now. And in fact, they're
about to be away for 2 weeks. And
there's a concern among some lawmakers
that while they're away on a scheduled
recess, the President could escalate
things. And Congress would really be in
no position physically to take action.
The calendar is not friendly to risk
assets right now. Bloomberg's Jonathan
Tamari there with the latest on the
situation following two tracks, the
status of talks and the status of troop
movements.
>> Yeah, and people are watching those
troop movements very closely. We talked
earlier about that Wall Street Journal
report. Congress, you think that they're
going to actually step in here? They
haven't even been able to make a move on
TSA. I mean, that was superseded also by
President
>> there, even when they are there. They're
they're Correct. Thank you. Even the
vote last night, it was basically empty
last night in the chamber when they
voted at 3:00 a.m. Yes, and it was just
basically, "Yay, let's get the show on
the road and let's make sure TSA is
funded." That exchange I had yesterday
with the President, he said that their
capabilities have been decimated. But it
hasn't changed the facts on the ground
for the Strait of Hormuz. Every single
day, according to TankerTrackers, we're
just at two vessels getting through on
average since this war started and
tomorrow will mark 1 month. Before the
war, it was more than 100. Which is why
the physical market is so much higher
than what we're seeing in the paper
market.
>> We've seen the damage done
to some of the energy assets in the
region. It's going to take time to
repair them. And we know that when you
shut in production, the longer you shut
in production, the longer it takes to
ramp it up at the other side. So we know
this is going to go on for another 10
days and the market is responding to
that lingering uncertainty. Tobin Marcus
of Wolfe Research writing this, we don't
think either side has reached the limits
of its pain tolerance. The president
thinks the US is winning and the Iranian
regime thinks they're winning, too.
Tobin joins us now for more. Tobin,
where does that leave us?
I think it leaves us in uh
largely the same dynamic that we've been
in, where the president faces, you know,
options to uh escalate, to try to
de-escalate, which he's doing uh now, or
just to stay the course. I think all of
those have downsides from the US
perspective. And I think anything other
than, you know, a surprising diplomatic
breakthrough that we don't expect is
going to perpetuate and intensify stress
on markets. Tobin, the Wall Street
Journal um also has that Iran this
requested 10-day pause on strikes was
not coming from Iran. Iran never
requested this the way the president
presented it to the world. What do you
make of that? Is the president
negotiating with himself? Is he just
buying time as he has this troop
build-up?
Yeah, I mean, what we were saying prior
to the announcement of this extension
earlier yesterday was if we do see an
extension, which seems like a very real
possibility as we were approaching the
end of that 5-day period, where the
president himself speculated about the
possibility of an extension during the
cabinet meeting yesterday, that if that
were to happen, it would reflect
basically that the US wasn't ready to
choose between
uh you know, to to decide whether or not
to undertake one of these decisive
escalation options, rather than
representing real, you know, progress
behind the scenes. And so, I think
characterizing it as having been
demanded by the Iranians, even when the
reporting contradicts that, largely
lines up with that with that theory. So,
you know, maybe it's
a, you know, very specific smokescreen
for planned escalation, and he's waiting
for more assets to get into the region.
There's been lots of commentary about
the first Marine Expeditionary Unit
scheduled to arrive today, but there's
more on the way. There's airborne troops
on the way. So, we could still be
positioning for a you know, definitive
escalation plan, or he could just be
buying time. If he's not ready to pull
the trigger on either strikes on
electrical infrastructure, or one of
these muted ground operations, then, you
know, you can always kick the can down
the road. You have a new tongue-in-cheek
alternative to TACO, and you say it's a
kebab, kinetic escalation before
abruptly backing off. What kind of
kinetic escalation could we see?
Yeah, I think the kinetic escalation
that we had in mind when we came up with
that kebab idea was what we've already
seen, right? That we we undertook this
war, it's been, you know, very high
intensity so far, and then at some
point, you know, chickening out I don't
think is a great characterization of
anything that's gone on here, but that
at some point you could see the
president try to just de-escalate. You
know, notably, as people talk about, you
know, TACO and the strike price of the
the Trump put and so forth, the one
thing we haven't actually seen him do is
make any actual move to de-escalate.
We've seen him, you know, open talks,
we've seen him talk about talks,
um, you know, but those are all an idea
that he might de-escalate if we see big
concessions from the Iranians that
there's been no indication that they're
willing to make. What he hasn't done is
actually reduce the intensity of US
strikes, actually, you know, undertake a
unilateral ceasefire and see if the
Iranians respond in kind. And so, I
think, you know, going back to the
comments earlier about whether or not
the two sides are at the limit of their
pain tolerance, if we actually start to
see the president in more of a panic
about the market and economic and
political backlash, which I don't think
he's in right now, that option is still
available of actually trying to
de-escalate short of, you know, telling
the Iranians essentially that we're
ready to accept their unconditional
surrender, which has been the US message
so far, and I don't think that surrender
is in the offing. Tobin, if this
continues for weeks and put up possibly
even months, how big is the blue wave
going to be in come November?
So, I think the the kind of elasticity
of political outcomes to how this goes
is relatively low. The House, I think,
is basically, you know, a foregone
conclusion flip Democratic, and we've
thought that for quite some time. The
Senate, betting markets are now starting
to believe in in the a blue Senate. I
personally don't really. I think it's a,
you know, real long shot for them in
these four red states that they would
need to win two of, Alaska, Iowa, Ohio,
and Texas. Those are all big reaches.
And so, I think we're in a universe
where, you know, even as the political
situation deteriorates, as the war
continues, as gas prices go up, and so
forth, there's not that many more seats
you can lose in the House based on the
way the maps are drawn, and similarly in
the Senate. So, if I'm President Trump,
and I suspect that there are people
around him telling him this, you know,
if the midterms, the House is lost, the
Senate's not that loseable, that does
give him room to have the courage of his
convictions if he thinks that this is a
generational problem that he can, you
know, either substantively or as a way
to kind of enshrine himself in the
pantheon of American presidents by
dealing with this. I I do think that
that has some appeal looking past the
midterms. Tobin, it's good to see you.
Thanks for catching up with us. Tobin
Marcus there of Wolfe Research on the
sentiment shock. You, Mitch, consumer
sentiment coming a little bit later on
this morning. Look out for that number.
Might not be pretty. Up next, ECB
Governing Council member Pierre Wunsch
on Europe's path forward.
Equities declining here in their session
lows. We're down by 0.4% on the S&P. On
the Nasdaq, -0.6. The losses yesterday
notable. The biggest one-day loss we've
seen since this war started. But one
thing that hasn't been talked about
enough, it's not just about the Middle
East. There's something else happening
here. It's also about tech and tech
names. Microsoft having a really
difficult go of it. Down by 30% from the
highs of last year. Meta down 15% this
month. Hammered yesterday. The Nasdaq
100 basically in correction territory.
It's down about 10% from its from its
recent highs. But the idea that it
hasn't seen a new high going back to
gives you a sense of just how far we've
fallen. They've lost their leadership.
What does it mean at a time when we have
talked to a lot of investment managers
saying that big tech is the haven that
we are not seeing that actually play out
at a time of stress.
>> so much of this market, tech problems,
the Middle East, private credit, and
bond yields just squeeze higher, making
everything worse. Tighter financial
conditions, yields up by four basis
points, 4.45%
on 10s, 2s around 4%. The president
removing near-term escalation risk, but
introducing longer-term uncertainty with
10 days of talks.
>> Especially because oil prices still are
around that $100 a barrel presenting a
quagmire for central bankers. Do they
hike rates? Do they keep rates rates
where they are for a prolonged period of
time even as you do get some demand
destruction and you talk about how you
do have financial conditions tightening.
They're not tightening very quickly, but
around the margins just steadily
increasing with mortgage rates hitting
their highest levels so far this year.
Going into spring selling season, which
isn't welcome news for a lot of you
working in the housing market, I'm sure.
And if you're looking to sell your home
or buy a home, of course. In the
commodity market right now, Brent crude,
Brent 110, WTI 96. It's the persistence
of this story that is going to cause
problems. The street for most remains
closed.
>> Absolutely. And there's a note from
Macquarie today that if this goes on
till June, which at this moment
potentially you could see the street not
being operational in in the normal way.
This can go on till June. You're looking
at $200 a barrel. Caught my attention
this morning, crude oil energy. Force
majeure for liftings through May. This
is liquefied natural gas that the world
is really relying on, especially Europe
and Asia.
>> Stocks are softer this morning. We're
negative 0.4% with some single names,
some morning movers. Danny Burger has
more. Hey Danny. Hey John. AstraZeneca
this morning up 3.6% releasing the
results for a treatment of a deadly lung
disease. That result showed that it was
able to target improvement for the
deadly lung disease. Bloomberg
Intelligence saying that this would be a
$5 billion addressable market for
AstraZeneca. So shares again rising in
the pre-market. You mentioned the tech,
you mentioned the big cap, but it's also
software which continues to get
hammered. The blame was originally put
on that Google announcement of
compressing the need for memory. But the
pain has really continued. SanDisk and
Western Digital and Micron all down at
least 2.3%. SanDisk is down 15% in this
week alone. It's also up 1,000% over the
past year. So some of those gains coming
off. Now finally wrapping things up with
some deal news. Brown-Forman, those
shares moving unchanged at the moment.
This is the maker of Jack Daniel's. They
announced it as a merger of equals which
tends never to actually be the truth,
but with them and Pernod Ricard, they're
both heavily family owned businesses.
The according to people familiar this
deal would involve a lot of stock.
So those owners can keep control. So
Brown-Forman, one to keep an eye on but
unchanged at the moment John. Danny,
thank you. Thanks for the update. More
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Trump
announcing an executive order bypassing
Congress to pay TSA agents during the
partial government shutdown. This
morning the Senate approving a bill
funding most of DHS. A house vote is
expected later on today. Elsewhere the
president extending his deadline for
striking Iranian energy sites for 10
days. Trump writing in a post on Truth
Social talks are going quote very well
even though Tehran insists it's not
negotiating with Washington. And
finally, the Secretary of State, Marco
Rubio, calling on NATO allies to step up
and do more to help secure the Strait of
Hormuz.
There was a couple of the leaders in
Europe who said that this was not
Europe's war. Well, Ukraine is not
America's war, and yet we've contributed
more to that fight than any other
country in the world. Very little of our
energy comes through the Straits of
Hormuz. It's the world that has a great
interest in that. So, they should step
up and deal with it. They should be
doing something about it. The Secretary,
Marco Rubio, made his G7 Foreign
Ministers in France today. A polarizing
message right now, and you hear, for
example, UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer
saying he's only going to harden his
stance against joining this in any
capacity, or even opening up certain
regions to US troops as a result of
pushback. Mark Rutte, the head of NATO,
facing huge pushback among some of the
other nations after going on CBS's Face
the Nation over the weekend and saying,
"Trump is doing this to make the whole
world safe." Saying what the president
is doing here, which is taking out
degrading Iran's capability to be again
an export of chaos here, chaos the
region to the world. Saying this is a
fight that NATO should join. I think two
things can be true at once. Rutte is
right. The Iranian regime is the biggest
state sponsor of terror, and it doesn't
help anyone in this world if they were
to get a nuclear weapon. At the same
time, I think the Europeans might be
even emboldened by what J.D. Vance said
last year. I can't get over this. J.D.
Vance gave an interview, the vice
president, and said, "The Europeans,
maybe if they were a little bit more
independent, if they weren't just a
vassal of United States foreign policy,
maybe they would have stuck up instead
of going into the Iraq war with the
United States, which J.D. Vance called a
strategic disaster, the American-led
invasion of Iraq. So, you can have some
capitals in Europe not really getting on
board with wanting to a more protracted
environment, and maybe getting engulfed
in this sort of conflict." And that was
his message just a year ago.
>> We've seen that pushback this month
alone. Let's talk about Europe. Global
central banks facing the threat of
higher inflation as energy prices soar.
The ECB navigating mixed signals with
some policy makers ready to act fast,
others urging caution. Joining us now to
discuss is an ECB Governing Council
member and the National Bank of Belgium
Governor, Pierre Wunsch. Governor,
welcome to the program, sir. Let's just
start with the nature of this shock.
From your perspective, is this the kind
of shock that a central bank should look
through?
Well, that's of course the
the the big question and
and we know the textbook case is for
looking through for
if you're confronted with a supply
shock.
Now, in the meantime, we have the
episode of '22 and in '22, we were a
little bit late in reacting. We had team
transitory. We're not alone. Um I was
maybe one of the first governors to to
be concerned about the fact that
inflation might might go up further than
what we had in our models.
So, now we are there. We have a again a
supply shock and we have to decide how
to react to it. We should not uh
overreact. I think so far we we we
we were able, I think, to communicate
the fact that we would react if need be,
but that we were not going to rush
to to do anything that that would would
be looking like overreaction.
But but anyway, I mean, we have to '22
is different.
Uh we have the textbook and we find we
need to find a middle way between what
we have in the textbook, which is we
don't react, and the experience we had
in '22. But in '22, of course, there
were a lot of um uh
bottlenecks in in the system, very tight
labor markets. You had a lot of fiscal
support
coming out of the the COVID crisis and
and that's not the situation we're in
today. The labor market is a bit weaker
in Europe.
Um so, we will have to find a a good
balance between
the the textbook situation and again
what we experienced in '22. Governor,
does that give you more time? Does that
give you more time and is April too soon
to know
what kind of shock this is to understand
if you should look through it or react
to it?
Well, if the conflict is mainly over by
by April, then I guess
we we will be closer to what we what we
have in our baseline. We had just made
some projections uh
over the during the last meeting of the
Governing Council. I think the base case
that we produced was still relatively
benign. Uh inflation was moving to a
peak of 3% but not on a yearly basis and
then going down quite quickly uh to 2%.
On the basis of that, uh it's not clear
that the reaction would be warranted. Of
course, uh we we were doing the
projection on the basis of two hikes
that were priced by the market,
but I would say, you know, if we're if
we are still close to the baseline, uh
that it's it's not clear we have to
react. If we move to what we call the
adverse or the severe scenario, then we
have uh higher inflation and certainly
more persistent on uh in the case of the
severe, and then my guess would be that
we have to do we would have to do
something, but but even then I think we
need to make a distinction between
reacting
so that real rates uh remain stable or
reacting and increasing real rates. So,
if you believe that core inflation is
going to go up for a period over a year,
you may want to to react and the first
hike might just be adjusting to this
higher core inflation.
And then there is a stage if the shock
uh is bigger and you have uh significant
second-round effects, which is of course
a big part of the uncertainty, where you
might have to to tighten as such. And I
I would I would still make this
difference. Hiking as such if core
inflation is going up might not be
tightening. And I'm not I'm not talking
about, you know, uh spot real rates, but
I say over a period of 1 or 2 years
depending on what our view of the world
is. Governor, it sounds like you're more
patient potentially than some other
members on the ECB. I'm thinking for
example of a recent interview that
President ECB President Christine
Lagarde did with The Economist yesterday
saying that the ECB would have to
respond in a more forceful or persistent
way if inflation looked set to sit well
above its 2% target for an extended
period. Most people would agree. But she
said even a more modest overshoot could
call for a measured rate move. Do you
agree with that that if inflation does
not look like it is poised to go down to
2% say by the end of this year that it
makes sense to signal to markets that
you're serious about containing
inflation by making a hike?
Well, if I if I gave the impression that
was not aligned with Christine Lagarde,
I'm sorry for that because we are
completely aligned or I'm I'm aligned to
her
uh with her view uh but uh but I was
just discussing the case whereby the
meeting of April the conflict would be
over and then honestly
it's it's still something that is
relatively uh probably relatively benign
and we might have to react or not, but
that's not
you know, a difficult situation probably
to to deal with. Uh my concern is of
course and the concern of many people
and of the market is that it would not
be over by by April or maybe not even
over by June. What I would like to have
is a better mapping of the scenarios
that we're making to actually the
conflict uh lasting until April or until
June that we have a better mapping of
our scenarios and and basically the
meetings of the Governing Council. Uh
but it it's it's moving fast. So, one
meeting is April, another meeting is
June. If the conflict is not over by
June, then we are uh
you know, most probably uh way above uh
our our baseline
and that would probably warrant some
some kind of reaction. Governor, do you
think that the ECB is hamstrung by the
fact that it is a single mandate Fed
dealing with an inflationary shock that
the Fed looks like it's currently
prepared to look through
given that that is a serious growth hit
on the other side that is potentially
going to transpire.
Well, in a way it makes it easier
because if you have only one objective,
you only look at one one target. But we
always insist that we have an objective
over a medium-term horizon. So we do
integrate the impact of the shock on
growth and to the extent that the impact
of the shock on growth would be to some
extent deflationary. I don't think
that's the base case, but of course we
would have to take that into account.
But it's taking into account the impact
of the shock on the real economy and
then the repercussion in in terms of
whether we're going to to be faced with
second-round effects or not.
If the economy weakens fast, then the
second-round effects might be limited,
which might warrant
less of a move. And the big uncertainty
is of course the labor market and and
the economy is less tight than it was in
'22 going coming out of the of the COVID
crisis
with all these bottlenecks in the
system.
But but economic agents were surprised
by the pick up in inflation. We had
known a period of low inflation for a
long very long time. So people reacted
as much as we did in a way slowly to the
inflation developments. The big thing
now we have to monitor is whether
economic agents, firms, and then workers
will adapt more quickly this time to to
the shock.
If this is the case, it might lead to
second-round effects that would be uh
quote-unquote higher
ceteris paribus compared to to to the
level of the shock.
If because of weaknesses in the economy
and the labor market firms and then
workers don't react fast and basically
take the hit,
then the case for reacting is less
strong. Governor, just a final question.
Listening to you to recap, what I hear
is patience. The prospect of two
different scenarios with different
responses. What I see in markets though
is tighter financial conditions, a
market doing the work for you already.
Higher yields on government bonds
pricing in the prospect of rate hikes
from the central bank over the next year
or so. When you look at that, do you
consider that an unwarranted tightening
of financial conditions given the
patience that you've pledged this
morning already?
Well, I'm not
You know, I'm I'm patient today, but in
April, if we're still there, I might not
be patient. So, I don't want to convey
the message that we are not ready to
act, but I'm I'm I'm comfortable with
what I see in the market. But, given the
uncertainty, the uncertainty is huge.
So,
you know, making any judgment today of
what we can do in April or June, given
the uncertainty, the market uh signals
or reaction will be uh different next
week and the week after next. We have to
monitor that. Uh we have uh to to at
least I mean, we should not overreact. I
mean, we are not going to control the
first-round effects of the shock. So, we
should not even try to control the
first-round effects. So, in this sense,
we have we have time to re- react react
adequately depending on what is our
perception of what the second-round
effects will be. But, you know, April is
not out of the question. If If by April
we have um
uh
solid evidence that the shock will be
lasting and will uh lead uh to um
a big hike in inflation that uh is
likely to to have some degree of
persistence, then we might have to do
something. But, you know, we still have
some time before the April meeting, and
I don't want to take any
any bet in one or the other direction.
>> We are all flying blind there. We
appreciate your time. Governor, thank
you. The Belgian Central Bank Governor
there, Pierre Wunsch, on the situation
in European debt markets and in European
rates. You know, Steven Englander over
at Societe Generale, I said a chartered,
excuse me, came up with this line in a
recent paper. FOMC Powell likely to be
too aggressively do nothing. And it
seems like uh right now ECB officials
want to aggressively not take a position
because they don't want to give a signal
that could potentially be committal at a
time of so much uncertainty.
>> They want to commit to anchoring
inflation expectations, but they don't
really want to be hiking interest rates
here. That's the delicate dance for
communication into the next round of
meetings.
>> Given the lack of growth in terms of the
backdrop and the potential hit to
inflation longer term, it's a difficult
time for them and you can hear that.
Let's give you an update on news
worldwide with some top stories. Your
Bloomberg brief, Yohaira has more. Hi
Yohaira. Hi John. The Senate passing a
bill to end the Department of Homeland
Security shutdown. The bill still needs
to pass the House and be signed by
President Donald Trump. Before the bill
was passed in the Senate, the president
had said he would sign an order to pay
TSA officers.
A legal victory for Anthropic, the maker
of the chatbot Claude, winning a court
order blocking a Trump administration
ban on government use of its AI
technology. Anthropic argues the ban
could cost it billions in lost revenue.
And Apple giving rare bonuses to iPhone
hardware designers. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the company gave
bonuses worth several hundred thousand
dollars to many members of its iPhone
design team. The company is hoping to
stem a wave of departures to startups
like OpenAI. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohaira, thank you. More
from Yohaira in the next hour. Up next
on the program, keeping the pressure on
the Fed.
We have a great new person coming in to
take over the Fed. Kevin may not
ever have an office, but they don't sue
the guy
whose interest rates are too high. We
call him Jerome too late, pal. We'll
spend some time on that in just a
moment. Sonu Desai of Franklin Templeton
joins us next.
>> So, we're recovering just a touch. We're
off the lows. We're negative by a third
of 1% on the S&P. We're down 0.5 on the
Nasdaq. On the Russell, we're down 0.4.
In the bond market, shaky. Yields
bleeding a little bit higher at the long
end of the curve. 10s around the highs
of the year. And the Savannah's this
morning keeping the pressure on the Fed.
We have a great new person coming in to
take over the Fed.
And Kevin may not
ever have an office. But, they don't sue
the guy
whose interest rates are too high. We
call him Jerome "Too Late" Powell.
Jeanine Pirro, working with Pam and
others, has the courage to sue to find
out what happened to maybe $4 billion in
a building that may never be occupied by
Kevin. We're going to have to find him
some space in the White House.
We'll put him in the basement of the
ballroom. So, here's the latest this
morning. The president continuing his
push for lower interest rates as the
confirmation of Fed chair nominee Kevin
Warsh remains on pause. Sonali Desai
Franklin Templeton writing, "Even before
the current shock, I was not expecting
any more cuts. But, it is too early to
forecast rate hikes." Sonali joins us
now for more. Sonali, welcome to the
program. I know so many people in fixed
income itching to get long duration
because yields have backed up, but
they're nervous. What are you advocating
for?
So, you know, we came in Thanks Thanks
for having me on, Jonathan. But, we came
into this year actually a little bit
short. And we are moving slowly towards
neutral, but I am not tempted to go long
yet. This is essentially when we talk
about the two It's either a bimodal
distribution or more accurately, there
are two tail risks. And we certainly
can't predict which of those tail risks
comes to fruition if either either one
of them, i.e. a very protracted uh
conflict or a very short conflict. Need
You can't You can't actually position
your portfolio to either one of those
two tail risks. So now, forgive me. I
keep harping on this one topic. Why are
long-end bond yields rising right now?
And I look at inflation expectations and
the break-even rates market, long-term
inflation is not ticking up. If
anything, it's going down. This is a
real rate move at a time when people are
looking out to the potential of a
decline in growth. Can you explain
what's going on currently in the long
end of the yield curve? To me, actually,
what what the market is doing is really
rational. It is anticipating that yes,
there may well be a decline in growth.
And the response to that decline in
growth is going to be massive fiscal
easing. You know, your prior guest from
the ECB, he only spoke about monetary
policy. He didn't mention what the
probable fiscal response would be if
this were to be a protracted conflict.
There isn't a government in the
developed world which will probably not
react by trying to accommodate some of
that weakening through a greater fiscal
push. So, I think that bond markets are
actually behaving pretty rationally
right now.
Do we think that we're pushing up
against the limits of using a fiscal
lever to offset weakness based on the
pushback that we're seeing right now
from the bond market?
So, it depends.
Well, was it was it that that's a useful
statement. I don't think we're getting
to a limit, okay? Because here's the
thing,
uh there is an enormous amount of
liquidity floating around globally.
There is the ability to finance more
bonds. However, at this point, clearly
the market is not accepting that the
yield is an adequate compensation for
the prospect of higher inflation and
higher bond supply. But you do find a
market clearing point. So, how much can
fiscal do? Even automatic stabilizers by
themselves will lead to widening fiscal
deficits. So, you know, the fact that
unemployment goes up, so unemployment
benefits go up, and so you will have a
widening in the event of a significant
slowdown. And I think there's a big
difference between what's happening in
Europe, as I think I I think you
mentioned yourself, versus what's
happening in the US. But in the US, for
a whole host of other reasons, we're
looking at fiscal profligacy as we've
never seen before. For the last 5 years,
we've seen it, and I see no indications
that this is going to go away anytime
soon. So now, what you just said there
on fiscal, I think it's really important
for multiple reasons. Here's one. Do you
think it increases the odds that we'll
see second-order effects if governments
step in and try and support consumers in
this moment?
Oh, in terms of inflation? Yeah. Yeah,
because actually it was the opposite way
around. If you If you think back to the
famous transitory period of 2021, what
was really going on in 2021? We did have
very easy monetary policy, but the
reality is, we had a enormous fiscal
splurge in the first quarter of 2021 as
a new administration came in. It was
absolutely enormous. And so, back in
those back at that time, to me it
appeared absolutely self-evident that
you were going to get demand-push
inflation, which the Fed kept saying was
a supply-side impact. And eventually, of
course, we we got the results we got. If
you do get that fiscal accommodation of
a shock of this this nature, you will
get second-round effects. Ultimately,
let's take an extreme scenario. Let's
suppose that we really are hitting and
taking out not just 20%, but oil
facilities, say, in other parts of the
Gulf, which is responsible for 30% of
global oil supply. Supposing you
actually do something much more
terrible, which leads to a several-year
contraction. You can't accommodate it,
because ultimately, you need demand
destruction, which translates into
slower growth. And
if
if they try to not do that, that's a
problem. Sonal, appreciate your time.
Thank you. Sonal Desai there, Franklin
Templeton. Of course, this shock is
hitting just as tax refunds are hitting
as well. That's the tailwind that
Torsten Slok is talking about that will
leave us in a bullish place at the end
of the year. Up next, Mona Mahajan of
Edward Jones, Callie Hoho of Jefferies,
Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley, Ajay
Rajguru of Barclays. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
We're at a world now where there's
heightened uncertainty. If we have a
peace deal, then we could have a relief
rally in markets. The market has been
volatile during this period, but not a
tremendous amount of downside yet.
>> The market is pricing in that there's
going to be a resolution. We are going
into an area of really uncharted waters
at this point. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. And your
price action looks like this.
Off-session lows, but no bounce. The
absence of a bounce here notable. Equity
futures down by third of 1% on the S&P
and the Nasdaq down by 0.5.
Negative follow-through following the
biggest one-day loss of March so far in
the bond market. Yields two-tens higher
on tens up five basis points, a new high
for the year, 4.46 is where things stand
off the back of this. Crude, the
problems persist. Triple digits, 111 on
Brent, 97 on WTI with this statement
from the President of the United States.
Talks won't wrap up in the next 24
hours. You'll have another 10 days. New
South and post deadline, April 6th. The
market take, the problem persists.
Ultimately, as you've said many times,
we don't have clarity. I would take this
a step further. There is a real signal
right now that's coming from the
markets, which is that the power of
tooth social diplomacy is losing its
clout. We are looking at a market that
doesn't see any easy resolution to this,
and it isn't one man's decision to
ratchet the temperature down and solve
things. That, I think, is the takeaway
from this week.
>> These aren't paper problems that you can
solve with verbal intervention. They are
physical problems. Jeff Currie of
Goldman Sachs talked about it multiple
times on this program. You cannot print
the barrels. You cannot print the
molecules. You cannot reopen the Strait
of Hormuz through talks alone. If they
continue, by definition, it is closed.
That's the situation, and as that
problem persists, the problems keep
building.
>> you need to look at action in the region
and not words. And what we've seen just
this morning, action in the region.
You're seeing missiles across Riyadh.
You're seeing the IRGC not let vessels
through the Strait of Hormuz. You're
seeing Chinese vessels. China buys the
lion's share of Iranian crude that was
before the United States decided to
unsanction some of it that's that's on
the water. They had vessels going
through and it made an abrupt U-turn.
The facts on the ground and the
reporting that the president is even
weighing potentially sending 10,000 more
trip troops show that this is going to
be longer, and this might be protracted,
and that is why the markets are starting
to wake up that you cannot, as you say,
talk your way out of this.
>> We have replaced the threat of near-term
escalation risk and introduced the
persistence of long-term uncertainty at
least for the next 10 days or so. And
we're tracking two things. One, not just
the movement of talks and the diplomatic
effort, but two, troop movement. This
from the Wall Street Journal. The
Pentagon looking to send up to 10,000
additional ground troops to the Middle
East to give President Trump more
military options. More options, more
uncertainty. Let's go back to the
conversation that we had with Colonel
Sanders from Bloomberg Intelligence
earlier this morning, where he said,
"This seems like a significant troop
buildup, but when you compare it to the
Gulf, you saw more than 600,000 troops
deployed to that effort. That said, it
indicates a potential ratcheting up, and
it comes alongside the fact that the UAE
and Saudi Arabia both are being vocal
about, "Hey, you better not pull out now
and leave this as the status quo,
because you're giving Iran a lot of
power over one of the main waterways of
the world."
>> this doesn't look to be a garrison. This
doesn't look to be permanent troops on
the ground. Strategic. Can they go in
there, these individuals highly trained
to do things like this? To capture
island, to open up waterways, but can
they go in there and fix this in a short
amount of time? And the Iranian
parliament is talking about even if this
becomes open in the future, there's now
going to be a toll. They've effectively
said, "We have demonstrated we can
control this street, and we are not
going to give up that leverage."
>> Brent crude this morning, right now,
very close to 111. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Mona Mahajan of
Edward Jones. With diplomatic
uncertainty hanging over markets,
Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley still
calling for two rate cuts this year. And
Ajay Rajadhyaksha of Barclays on the
widening cracks in the US economy. We
begin this hour with stocks adding to
losses as traders brace for a protected
war. Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones
writing, "While market volatility may
persist, this may also provide
opportunity. We prefer US large cap and
mid-cap equities, emerging market
equities, and cyclical sectors including
industrials." Mona joins us now for
more. Mona, welcome. We face what we've
called all week substantial two-way
risk, and that two-way risk will hang
over this market now until at least
April 6th, guided by the president's
self-imposed new deadline. Mona, what
are you advocating for between now and
then?
Yeah, John Luke, this has become a
show-me story, and it's not only about
updates on negotiations with Iran. It's
really about what's happening in the
Strait of Hormuz, and what's happening
with oil prices. And markets are almost
indirectly correlated with the move in
oil. We see higher oil prices this
morning. We see lower futures uh despite
the 10-day pause or extension uh in the
negotiation itself. So, you know,
generally we are waiting to see what the
duration of this conflict and especially
of the elevated oil prices will look
like. If you look at WTI futures
markets, uh markets are still pricing in
oil returning to mid-70 levels by
year-end. Uh so, if this conflict does
remain contained, we think the spillover
effects can remain contained as well.
Now, there's a probability around that.
That's a base case scenario, but there
are tail risks on either side. Samana,
that's the story. Let's talk about the
price of the story a little bit more.
Equities on the S&P 500 down almost 6%
so far this month. So far this month on
a 10-year maturity yields higher by some
50 basis points. Is the risk-reward
right now more attractive in stocks or
in bonds?
You know, we still see a compelling
stock or equity story ahead. Look, this
is still an environment where we think
the economy is uh going to be positive
this year. Economic growth we still
think can hover in that 2% range. Um and
importantly, the earning story we think
is still intact. And keep in mind, parts
of earnings, think about the energy
sector, will see some benefits from a
rise in oil prices, although parts uh
will not. Margin compression is is a
very real story there. But what's
important in the US is we have this
underlying secular theme of AI
technology and capex spending. And that
to us will continue to be a driver. We
think earnings growth can be high single
digits, low uh double digits still for
2026, and that provides some
underpinning to the stock market. The
tailwind comes from Big Tech, and yet
we've seen Big Tech of late not
outperform. It has lost its leadership
through most of this year, and we've
seen this sort of cyclical rotation into
some consumer-facing names. Can that
kind of trend persist given a backdrop
of higher oil prices and stickier Fed
policy rates?
Yeah, you know, it's interesting.
Certainly through the Iranian crisis, we
did see a bit of a pause in that
broadening cyclical story and in fact a
return to maybe a little bit of what are
considered defensive parts of market and
and technology and AI was part of that
partly because they had already seen a
meaningful correction sell-off prior to
the crisis and maybe folks were looking
for entry points again, but keep in mind
these are companies with tremendous
balance sheets still um and can be
considered relative safe havens in this
environment of uncertainty. So, uh we do
think that the tech AI story is still
part of a diversified basket for
investors and it does come to the
forefront in times of uncertainty like
this and certainly as we think of an
environment where the US dollar is
rising, uh there are winners and losers
there as well. But overall, we think um
the diversification
is going to be an important part of the
2026 story unlike the last 3 years where
it was very very much about concentrated
portfolios. John John was asking Mona
this idea of what you like better, bonds
or stocks here. You said stocks. At what
point does the rise in bond yields
pressure the stock story based on the
fact that it's really come from real
rates and usually that does crimp
potential for multiples.
Yeah, you know it look we are looking at
we we called for a 4 4 and 1/2% range on
the 10-year Treasury. As we get perhaps
above that or if we do get above that,
um we would start to look at duration
more meaningfully. You know, keep in
mind when we think about a Federal
Reserve and what they might do going
forward, um we still don't see the
potential for rate hikes on the horizon.
We do think that this is a supply-driven
shock. If oil was uh rising because
demand was overheating, then yes, rate
hikes could make sense, but very much
this is, you know, supply shock and a
rate hike in this environment probably
won't help that that problem at all. So,
uh we think the the Fed is on hold here,
but we We think over time and they
indicated it this still in the meeting
last week.
Um, they are looking at one to two
additional cuts in this cycle as well,
which of course is broadly supportive.
So, we are looking at still uh if bonds
get above that 4.5% range, we we'd
consider that more interesting here.
Mona though, if this is a protracted
conflict, do you think the Fed would be
able to cut interest rates?
You know, we certainly think uh in the
scenario that this is, you know, the
tail risk emerges and this is
protracted, deep, prolonged, then we do
start to think about um a market that
that doesn't look as strong, that
earnings growth does fall more
meaningfully because consumers are
pressured and corporate margins are
pressured, especially those corporations
that have energy needs. Um, and in that
environment uh the Fed is likely to cut
but cut for the wrong reasons, which,
you know, we don't want them cutting
because they see an imminent downturn or
recession in the economy. Uh if we do
see rate cuts, we'd like to see them
because they want to neutralize the Fed
funds rate uh a bit more and and they're
too restrictive at this point. So, you
know, in the scenario, historically when
we look at the Fed and and what it means
for markets, when the Fed is cutting uh
because the economy is faltering,
markets actually don't react as well.
When the Fed is cutting because they're
neutralizing, markets actually prefer
that environment. We're hoping for the
latter. Mona, good to see you. It's good
to catch up. Mona Mahajan there of
Edward Jones. This is a communication
dilemma for a central banker right now,
whether they're in Europe or the United
States. What they want to communicate
and what they actually want to do, two
different things. They know they have to
pledge to anchor inflation expectations.
And because of that, they can't
invalidate market pricing, which is
pricing interest rate highs,
particularly in a place like Europe, but
they definitely do not want to be hiking
into an energy shock right now or
anytime soon. There is a real reluctance
and I think you can sense that from when
you hear from some of these officials at
the moment. I mean, the ECB bankers did
absolutely nothing. Without a doubt.
>> you're blowing forward.
>> Right. So, but I I mean, well, no, but
Yes. But I they're aggressively saying
nothing and that's on purpose. That's a
policy decision given the fact that
ultimately to your point, if you've got
tightening financial conditions, that
will crimp growth and potentially
curtail the potential for inflation both
in real terms as well as in
expectations.
>> about it briefly earlier and I'm looking
forward to this conversation with Mike
Gapen over at Morgan Stanley because
they've broken out three scenarios, not
two.
And we've been talking about it round
this table that essentially the market's
focused on two, the prospect of much
higher crude prices or the prospect of
much lower crude prices, but there's a
middle ground. And the middle ground's
more problematic for this Federal
Reserve and I think for any central
banker. Central bankers seem more
comfortable at extremes because they
know what to do and they can do it with
confidence. If you get a major
recession, you throw the kitchen sink at
it and I've always said I don't think
that's particularly brave or impressive
because you know exactly what you need
to do. It's moments like these that are
really difficult to understand, to know
what to do. And Mike Gapen's work on
that, we're going to touch on it later,
is pretty interesting. Especially
because they did give a three-pronged
scenario and they said that the one that
presents itself to central bankers as
giving the most reason to hike is the
one that we're in right now.
>> The 110? The 110 rate. That is actually
this uncomfortable situation that could
prompt a Fed or an ECB to raise interest
rates.
>> just around the corner. Look out for
that. Let's get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohai has more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John.
President Donald Trump pushing back his
deadline for a deal with Iran saying he
will pause attacks on the country's
energy sites for 10 days. Trump also
saying talks with Tehran are going
quotes very well, but Iran says it's
waiting on a response from the US after
rejecting its peace plan and offering
its own conditions to end the war.
Israel saying it will step up strikes
against Iran despite President Trump's
delay. Defense Minister Israel Katz
saying the attacks will escalate and
expand to additional targets and areas
important to the regime. Katz warning
the Islamic Republic will pay a quote
heavy price.
And China has launched investigations
into US trade practices. It follows
similar moves taken by the US against
China that the Trump administration
launched after his tariff agenda was
upended by a Supreme Court ruling. It
comes days after the White House
announced President Trump will travel to
China in mid-May. That's the Bloomberg
brief, John. Yeah, Hyra, thank you.
Appreciate the update. Up next on the
program, the Mona Cores Plus, Callie
Coho of Jefferies with the war in Iran
weighing on consumer sentiment. We'll
break it down, what it means for the
consumer, and what it means for
consumer-facing companies. From New York
City this morning, good morning.
a price of oil per barrel starts to
bring in the recession risk much more
prominently. But the equity market here
is actually the wild card. The equity
market would have to start pricing in
downdraft in earnings. It would have to
shake confidence of CEOs, and and and on
the consumer side, and you would have to
see that foundation really become rocky
before we start to start even talk about
Fed easing here. Down almost 6% for the
month so far on the equity market on the
S&P 500. That was Joe Davis of FHN
Financial. Yesterday, the biggest
one-day loss we've seen since this war
started. Some negative follow-through
here on the S&P, on the Nasdaq, on the
Russell. We're softer by half of 1% on
the S&P, on the Nasdaq down by 0.6.
In the bond market, we keep going back
to where we've had some sloppy auctions
this week. 2-year, 5-year, and 7-year,
three for three. Yields up this morning
by four basis points, 4.46. And of
course, Lisa, what's notable about this
is yields are basically back to where
they were on Monday morning before the
president said there were talks with
Iran. There have been no developments
that have removed the uncertainty around
Fed policy and around ECB policy and you
still see a complete volatility in bond
market pricing. I mean even the move
index, the implied volatility going
forward, creeping ever higher. How do
you get ahead of this? I mean the idea
that Bob Michael is saying this is
technical, how is anyone going to step
in and say I have any conviction to buy?
>> Technical, fundamental, I'll tell you
what is painful. It's painful it's not
what the market was positioned for,
that's for sure in the bond market or
foreign exchange. Let's finish on crude,
111 on Brent, 97 on WTI pushing higher
by some 3%. Persistence is the problem,
how many times have we said that this
morning and the president's basically
just told us new South imposed deadline,
this will persist. See you on April 6th.
>> Yeah, living in purgatory at the moment
basically for the crude market. You have
this environment where even Qatar energy
when it comes to LNG, they're talking
about force majeure, people close to the
matter telling Bloomberg and then still
the straight, what you see right now is
just one or two vessels, three or four a
day getting through. This is so low
compared to where we were before the war
where more than 100 vessels went in and
out unimpeded unimpeded whenever they
wanted. Until that opens up, you're
going to see prices at minimum this
level, maybe higher. Brent lingering
around 111 this morning. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up JP Morgan
raising its price target on Halliburton
to 40 expecting limited impact from the
Iran war in its first quarter. The
second call from Wells Fargo boosting
its price target on Alphabet to 397
saying higher compute and the
opportunity for new profit sources, that
stock still lower by 1%. What a rough
ride it's been for tech recently. And
finally Mizuho raising its price target
on Carnival to 39 saying current levels
under appreciate long-term earnings
power, that name is down by 1.7%
fuel and travel is a problem right now,
Bramo. I just every time I feel like
someone's trolling you though when they
put up the cruise liners. Yeah, I just
feel like look, they are they are under
pressure. Who's going to be the winner?
Well, clearly it's going to be some of
the big guys which you see potentially
consolidating the power of the seas,
getting John on the cruise ship.
>> Mrs. Ferro was trolling me the other
day. She brought up the prospect of a
Disney cruise. I think that you should
go.
>> Absolutely not.
>> I think that in about a couple years
you'll be seeking somebody to entertain
the child.
>> I can't think of a single person in the
Ferro family that wants to go on a
cruise to be honest with I think that
maybe you'll change in two years.
Yesterday in the press room I heard the
Atlantic, the magazine, is doing a
tie-up for luxury cruise. Good for them.
And like hang out with some editors and
journalists. I'm not really sure that's
a vacation.
>> think of anything worse than that to be
honest with you. All right. Retailers
competing with high gasoline prices. The
national average still hovering near $4
per gallon. The team over at Jefferies
writing expectations were largely
transfixed on consumer tax relief
bolstering the physical economy.
However, driven by the conflict in the
Middle East investors have been forced
to quickly reframe expectations. Kali
Ferro of Jefferies joins us now for
more. Kali, good morning. Hey, good
morning. Thanks for having me.
>> reframed expectations since this war
started? Well, what haven't we reframed,
right? So, coming into the year one of
our biggest fears really in the retail
space was disinflation. That has
completely been thrown out the window
and now the the real input is where are
costs going, where are prices going, and
how is the consumer responding. Right
now we haven't seen any major changes in
volumes as a whole, but what to use the
buzzword of the last 24 months, this
K-shaped economy is real and this could
catch up with us sooner rather than
later. The biggest surprise for me would
be Bremo, I'd love your thoughts on
this.
The opposite happening.
Which is people got the tax refunds,
they've got this confidence. You don't
see it in the sentiment numbers, but
they keep on spending. And that's
essentially what Torsten Slok of Apollo
is making an argument for. That would be
the shocker. Think about what calling
for right now. No second order effects
because the labor market's not as tight,
the consumer's not as strong. That would
be the major surprise for the year ahead
if actually the consumer stares down
these prices and keeps on spending.
Especially if you get policy panic like
the one that Michael Hartnett is talking
about to juice the economy heading into
the midterms. That leads to an
inflationary pop, really bad for bonds,
but potentially really good for some of
these consumer-facing names, which is
exactly what Michael Hartnett was
pointing out.
>> So Kylie, a little bit later this
morning we get U Mich consumer
sentiment. I'm not expecting it to be
any good. We know U Mich is shaped by
energy prices to a greater extent. What
are people doing though? Your channel
checks, the visibility on the consumer,
the spending right now, the momentum we
had into 26, has it held up? So far,
yes.
Um what we are seeing, you know, I was
walking at Target last night, almost all
of the Easter decor is gone. So kind of
all these seasonal trends that we
started to see
are still playing out. People are still
spending in pockets where it might have
been light, say something like a toys, I
cover that space as well, still looks
kind of light. The inventories there is
maybe not be moving as much. So
to your point, we haven't seen the big
shift yet. What I think people are most
concerned about is the prolonged effect
of this, right? So, you know, when I'm
thinking about peak shipping times for
those more discretionary goods, that's
where we start to talking about some
timing risk. So near term, you're
starting to hear some consumer-facing
brands raising prices, the airlines in
particular. We were talking with United
earlier this week talking about the
potential for a 20% increase in fares in
response to the hit that they're
experiencing from oil prices.
Do you think that there is a
counterintuitive shift where suddenly
some of these retailers have pricing
power cuz they can say look, we're
dealing with supply shocks your
experiences throughout the throughout
the universe, but you guys are getting
tax refunds, you're still going to keep
buying. We can nudge up prices to
compensate for increased costs. Well,
that kind of goes back to the point of
it the biggest fear was disinflation and
now all of a sudden, wait, do we have a
little bit of room here? Especially for
some of these items that are new,
innovative, things like that that the
consumer was already drawing towards.
What we also see though is
consumers are becoming more choiceful.
So what they might say is, okay,
it's the buzz term, right?
>> Talia, we tried to get you out of the
studio for choiceful. I was saying I
apologize. I was apologizing.
Shut it down.
Well, I I say that though to say that
you know, we're going to see maybe more
private label mix, things like that. And
really, like I said, in terms of units,
in terms of overall spend in stores, we
haven't seen any major changes yet. So
what are you telling clients when they
come to you and they say, okay, so is
this a good time or a terrible time for
consumer-facing stocks? Do you just look
at them, shake your head and say, I have
no clue. Why don't you just check the
price of oil and get back to me in a
week?
Not quite. Um
We do have um a more of a view, like I
said, that the trends that were
happening are continuing to play out.
The big are getting bigger. Again, we're
very bullish on Wal- Walmart. And
although that stock has seen a little
bit of pressure lately, you know, you're
still going to end up seeing those
structural moves into the players that
were gaining share before this. I was
struck a few weeks ago when Ulta Beauty
came out and it was just after the war
started and said that there's
geopolitical risks. This is a makeup
brand, like a makeup store. Do you think
that in this environment you can see
like winners and losers, those that are
just maybe using this as an excuse
because there's underlying issues at at
their company?
There could be and that's definitely
been topical with some conversations
I've been having with investors
specifically.
I specifically just cut numbers for toys
and they were kind of calling some of
this stuff to be tariff related
and some people think that it's really
through so just maybe being weaker
demands, maybe you know,
more input costs. So yeah, there are
kind of some puts and takes of what are
we kind of covering up here? What's
real? What's structural? And truthfully,
right now, everyone's kind of responding
in different ways. We're not sure what
the long term is. So, no, there's
definitely pockets where we're positive,
but who who knows?
Cali, good to see you. Problems
continue. Cali Kohut there of Jefferies
on some of the retailers right now and
the shock to the consumer and the data.
Potentially the data, a real shock to
the data. What is March and April going
to look like? I think we've got a decent
idea of what the price pressures will
look like, but what about the output
numbers? What about unemployment and
payrolls over the next week?
>> Yeah, next week we get jobs, we get
payrolls, we get the ADP numbers. That's
all going to be incredibly important
given the fact that so far initial
jobless claims have not ticked up. You
haven't seen real pressure there. Is
there going to be the ability to, as
John tells us every single day, go to
your boss and tell him you want a raise?
>> always ask for a raise.
>> I'm going to blame you.
>> Know your worth, Bremo.
>> Okay, all right, thank you.
>> Always back yourself.
>> listening to this? Hey, Rachel.
>> Never allow your employer to think
Totally.
>> labor market conditions have
deteriorated. You should also always let
them know you've got options, that you
can always go somewhere else.
>> Single-handedly creating a wage spiral.
>> Of course you should.
Love you, John.
>> Everybody should do that. Coming up on
the program, Michael Gapen of Morgan
Stanley. Mike does that.
Still expecting two interest rate cuts
later this year. We'll get his thoughts
in just a moment. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
The president extending talks and with
it extending uncertainty. If I asked you
to guess this week, what's crude done on
the week? Would you guess that it's
lower on the week? Crude is lower on the
week. It's up on the session by about
3%. 111 on Brent, but it's these levels
that are the problem. And we've talked
about it all morning. You don't need
crude to go much higher from here. Just
holding on to these levels is
sufficient, sufficient enough to cause
problems. And you're seeing those
problems cross asset. Turn to the equity
market. Yesterday, biggest one-day loss
in the S&P 500 so far for the month of
March since this war started. We come
into Friday at 7-month lows, the lowest
since early September. Futures extending
losses down another 4/10 of 1% on the
S&P, on the Nasdaq by 0.6. In the bond
market, unlocking higher bond yields,
pushing higher again. The 10-year bond
yield up five basis points, 446 on tens.
Where will we on Monday morning? Lower
than where we are right now. So, even
the diplomatic effort has not turned
around the story in fixed income.
>> I'm laughing because you see that oil
prices are lower today than they were
when we started the trading session on
Monday. And it thinks that it makes me
think of
which is this roller coaster in Six
Flags. If you have kids and you've ever
brought them there, it's sort of you
begin and you end in the same spot, but
the ride in between matters, especially
if you get sick to your stomach. And it
seems like that is adding a risk premium
to every single asset class, which is
the reason why Rost Rostovich said, "At
this moment, nothing seems to be
working."
>> We have a physical problem, not a paper
issue. So, you can push around paper
markets all you like. We saw that on
Monday morning, but you haven't
addressed the physical problem. And you
can't address the physical problem with
verbal intervention alone.
That's the issue that policy makers and
officials have got right now. Because we
do not control the Strait of Hormuz. And
this crisis just shows that this threat
that Iran has always said that this
leverage they use across the global
economy, they're actually using it. And
today you see it. The IRGC is turning
around ships. You're even seeing Chinese
vessels having to take U-turns. They are
not getting through. How do you address
that? Potentially the military
operation, which is why the Wall Street
Journal is talking about they're even
weighing sending 10,000 more trips of
troops on top of the Marines and the
86th Airborne Division they already have
deployed. Three options, three doors.
Which door are you going to walk through
right now? The resolution to a positive
outcome, a positive future, door number
one. Door number two, escalation risk.
Things get a whole lot worse from here.
You start hitting energy plants, you see
retaliation across Gulf nations, they
get pulled in, terrible stuff. Door
number three, far more complicated, the
status quo, the new status quo, that
these problems just linger. This
persists
through the next several months. I
picked door number one, just letting you
know. I hope I'm there with you. I I
think that increasingly though people
are thinking about what door number
three looks like,
and let alone door number two, and the
question of something that not Morgan
Stanley's talked about, the
non-linearities. The idea that once you
get past a certain point, suddenly the
pain gets much more severe, not in a
linear fashion.
>> We'll talk to Morgan Stanley about that
in just a moment. This is how the stage
is set going into the opening bell. One
hour away from the cash open. Futures
negative by 0.4%
with an update on some single names,
some morning movers. Danny has more. Hey
Danny. Hey John, adding to the not so
very good day yesterday and the not so
very good morning this morning is a
sell-off we're seeing in tech. It
started, at least it was attributed to
this new announcement from Google about
compressing the need for memory, but it
feels like it's taking a life of its own
because you continue to see SanDisk and
Western Digital down this morning.
Micron down less, but still down half a
percent. They're down 15%
so far this week. We're also seeing a
lot of the software names sell off this
morning. CrowdStrike is down. Palo Alto
is down. Microsoft is down. There's a
lot of speculation that hedge funds had
started to short cover in this war when
they tried to get loaded to the ground.
Maybe that short covering is over and
they're reloading up on those negative
bets. Elsewhere, AstraZeneca, that is
trading to the upside,
releasing a study around a treatment for
a deadly lung disease, the results of
which are being interpreted as very
positive. Bloomberg Intelligence says
that this is an addressable market as
big as $10 billion, so shares up just
about three and three quarters of 1%.
Wrapping things up with Carnival, we
should hear from them in about 45
minutes time for their earnings. It's
had a very bad month. Since the war has
broken out, they are down nearly 20% for
their worst month since 2022. The
concern, both consumer appetite and
higher fuel prices. What will they say
on their earnings call? Shares already
negative ahead of it, down 1.7% John.
Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Look out for Danny alongside Matt Miller
at the top of the hour, about 25 minutes
from now to guide you into the opening
bell. Turning to the economy, lots of
data coming up over the next hour or so.
Consumer sentiment numbers we need to
talk about and Fed officials warnings on
inflation following this war and the
spiking crude prices. Mike McKee has
more. Morning, Mike.
Morning, John. Any of you guys remember
Muzak? The people who in theory invented
the hold music for telephone?
Well, Muzak is now Fed speak because
we're seeing everybody at the Fed put
the central bank on hold for right now.
We had three more members last night,
all of them on the Board of Governors
saying they're worried about inflation
and there's no reason to do anything
about interest rates right now. Lisa
Cook, I would argue that the inflation
risk is greater right now as a result of
the Iran war. With respect to the labor
market, I see it as being in balance but
precariously so. Joined by Michael Barr,
the spike in energy prices and other
commodities could have broader
implications for both prices and
economic activity.
And then Philip Jefferson, the Federal
Reserve Vice Chair, an extended bout of
elevated energy prices could put upward
price pressure on a variety of other
products. Now, nobody is talking
uh rate increase at the moment but they
are setting the stage for Wall Street to
start worrying about it. And what's
really interesting, you go back a couple
weeks, this is not what the chart of Fed
funds futures look like. Right now, all
of the futures are basically pricing in
out to 2027
rate increases of one level or another.
We're not there for a full rate increase
yet but the graph has turned around.
Everything all those bars were going
down before. Now they're all going up.
Joining them in their concern about
inflation, but not as bad as Wall Street
economists,
uh the Bloomberg survey of economists
out this morning shows that they expect
PCE inflation of 3.1%. That's up from
last month's estimate of 2.6%. A big
jump. Not a lot of change in
unemployment, and they're still
forecasting two rate cuts. But recession
odds have risen a little bit. So the Fed
on hold, and right now uh nobody really
knows what's going to happen, but the
economists are a little more optimistic
about rate cuts when we get to the end
of the year than it looks like Wall
Street investors are. And Mike, you know
how much I respect you, but I have to
concede I didn't listen to a word of
anything you just said, because I was
searching for Muzak. Really? On the
internet, yeah. Muzak you never you
didn't know it Muzak was?
>> the brand Muzak was, no. Oh my goodness.
>> up in the UK. Yeah, but you probably
weren't exposed to it as well. I I was
exposed to it, sure, but I didn't know
where. There's everywhere. Oh, it's
fantastic. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's
making a comeback. Appreciate it. Mike
McKee there. Did you know what that was?
Nope, but I don't just was sitting there
wondering how long did it take Mike
McKee to come out with that? You know,
that that gem of the morning.
>> a second. How could you guys possibly
not know what Muzak is?
>> Well, I live somewhere else, and I'm
raised on a different side of 40. Oh
that. Right?
Let's move on. So so there you go. Mike
Gafton at Deutsche Bank Stanley with
this to say, "In light of higher oil
prices, we revise our outlook for 2026
in favor of less growth, more inflation,
higher unemployment, and later Fed cuts.
We now project 25 basis point rate cuts
in September and December." Mike joins
us now for more. Mike, good morning.
Good morning. Good to see you, buddy.
Let's talk about your three scenarios,
because we've been talking about it all
morning. We've been obsessed in this
market over two-way risk. The prospect
that prices go a lot higher from here,
or they go a lot lower from here. There
is a middle ground. Can you go through
the three scenarios for the for us, and
what it might mean for Fed policy. Yeah,
I think as you alluded to uh in the last
segment, door number one is as
uncertainty diminishes, risk, you know,
back walks back, oil comes back down.
So, we return to where we were kind of
pre-February 28th. And as you said in
the other direction, door number three
is oil goes a lot higher and kind of
clearly triggers nonlinearities and and
it weakens demand and the labor market
and activity clearly suffered. The
door number two is that kind of in
between scenario where oil stays
elevated for a long time. So, there's
lingering term premium in the oil
market. And it's hard to know what to do
as a central bank policy maker in in
these worlds and because
it oil up to a certain level is mainly
an inflation story. And so, you want to
lean against that. And the Fed already
seeing its policy rate as being
restrictive, that's a that's a Fed
that's probably on hold for the
foreseeable future.
But somewhere in there if oil goes high
enough and activity weakens, the Fed may
want to to cut. So, it's uh there is a
convexity. We think it's around $125
a barrel. That as you move above that,
you'll you'll probably start seeing
demand for oil and other products be be
destroyed. So, it we don't know quite
where that level is, but that's the
idea. Some oil means some inflation
means at least the Fed on hold for a
prolonged period of time. Our forecast
is in that world, the unemployment rate
drifts a little higher and the Fed turns
to rate cuts later this year, but
that's, you know, we'll we'll see we'll
see how that goes.
>> of in the middle window right now. The
problem window. Can we talk about where
we are now and the prospect for a
broadening kind of price pressure? When
you're around 110, 111 from the 60s,
from the 70s and you spike up that
quickly, what is the prospect of the
bleed-through to other prices? Well, the
so the the standard analysis here is you
don't get bleed-through to other prices.
Right? So, the kind of the last 35 or so
year history of the US is that oil will
be a headline inflation story. It
destroys demand on the other side,
therefore it doesn't pass through to
core. So, the history says you probably
won't get it, but the story
uh where you might get it is a
combination of well, we're 5 years above
the 2% target. This is our third kind of
consecutive supply shock.
Um is it the case that there will be
second round effects either because uh
firms are seeing higher input costs,
right? So, in in one way it's a there's
a price story here, but there's also a
quantity story. In the US, oil is
available at a price. In other parts of
the world, it's getting to the point
where as you noted the difference
between paper oil and physical oil, if
physical oil starts to become a problem,
then you start to get kind of supply
chain disruptions like we saw in the
pandemic. That could kind of create
second round effects
uh on on core inflation that you would
not expect from a econometric exercise
where oil goes up and then oil comes
back down. So, the longer it stays at
110,
the more you start to risk second round
effects. Especially if the economy is as
hot as Torsten Slok over at Apollo seems
to think that it is. I mean, one of the
complications here is the complete
disagreement about the state of the
labor market and the state of the US
economy heading into this period. How
important is next week's employment
report going to be to give a sense of
how much wage inflation there is
potentially, how tight the labor market
actually is. Well, that as you know, the
survey for that would be taken around
March 12th, the middle of the month,
only about 2 weeks into the uncertainty
that that we've been seeing. So, I don't
anticipate that it's say a a clean
reading on what the labor market looks
kind of post-Middle East conflict. So,
we're you know, we're expecting I think
a pretty decent report cuz we'll get
some payback from the workers who were
on strike and some of the weather, we
think 60 to 70,000.
Um so, I don't think you're going to see
a lot out of it yet. That's probably
more the April employment report. Uh and
the retail sales data coming, it's
delayed. It's, you know, we need timely
data. We're not getting it.
But the the analysis suggests that oil
price shocks tend to hit spending on
goods more than anything else. So, I
think that one will will be critical.
And the other thing I'm watching is our
is the inflation swap data. Meaning, the
inflation mark market, I think, is a
very good indicator for when we might
hit that non-linearity in in oil prices.
So, a year ago after liberation day,
when when tariffs were were very high,
one-year one-year inflation swaps went
down. So, it was an indication that the
market saw those tariffs as
embargo-level tariffs, and activity
would would fall, and inflation would
come down. So far, that hasn't happened
in the current uh volatility. One-year
one-year inflation swaps have generally
moved up. Uh so, that is kind of a
trigger point or an indicator I'm
watching for maybe when financial
markets think oil prices have gone too
high. There's also the issue that
financial markets have started to feel
some moderate constraint, particularly
in the bond space. And you start to see
some real pushback around levels across
the curve. At what point is that enough
to crimp growth in and of itself, to act
as sort of a constraint on how high
inflation could go? Well, I think we're
there cuz we've, you know, we made
revisions in that direction, taking some
of this into account. Um so, I do think
financial conditions have tightened
anywhere on the equivalent of, you know,
about two federal funds
uh rate hikes. Uh so, bond spreads have
moved up. Oil, of course, has moved up.
The dollar has moved up. Equities have
moved down.
You combine all of that, and it is
probably the the market is doing the
Fed's work for it now. So, I would say
we're we're there, and we've we've taken
some of that into account into our
revisions.
>> Getting some feedback from Bloomberg
subscribers this. Most likely there's no
data that's super important now. This
third supply shock, trade, labor, now
energy, has lasted too long to just
assume it away. The backward-looking
stuff is even more backward-looking.
Which a lot of people would agree with
and we've been getting data and people
point to it and it makes no difference
whatsoever in markets. Is there though a
difference if you do get a sense that
there is a heating up of the labor
market that potentially this could lead
to a greater wage price type of reaction
to what we're seeing with respect to the
oil price shock.
>> think that shocks like this bring the
best out of research teams on Wall
Street. Really enjoyed the work from the
team at Morgan Stanley. Mike, thank you.
Mike Gapen there of Morgan Stanley.
Let's get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Let's cross over to Ye Heira for more.
Hey Ye Heira. Hi John. Anthropic
considering going public as early as
October. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg. The maker of the Claude
chatbot is in talks with Goldman Sachs,
JP Morgan, and Morgan Stanley about
playing a key role in its listing. The
information reporting in Anthropic IPO
could raise more than $60 billion.
Baseball is back. The Mets off to a hot
start after beating the Pirates 11 to 7.
Milwaukee dominating the White Sox
scoring 14 runs and striking out 20
batters. And the defending champion, the
Dodgers, beating the Arizona
Diamondbacks 8 to 2.
And Netflix announcing it's raising
prices across the board. The streaming
giant's subscription with ads will now
be $8.99 a month with the premium plan
increasing increasing $2 to $26.99
a month. This marks Netflix's first
price hike in over a year and is
effective immediately for new customers.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John. Ye
Heira, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus, Ajay
Rajadhyaksha of Barclays joins us on the
widening cracks in the US economy and
we've got to get his view on why they
upgraded their outlook for US equities
in the last week. Barclays pushing their
price target on the S&P higher. That
conversation up next.
Things seem to be in a free fall. You
don't want to catch a falling knife. You
do get concerned that there is an
inflation problem that becomes broader
down the road. Right now, we're still
not expecting recession. You have to go
well north of $120 a barrel for a
recession. So, in the meantime, just let
the markets go to wherever they're
going. In the meantime, as we've said a
few times already this week, it feels
like trying to catch a falling chainsaw.
That was Bob Michael of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Equities this morning
negative once again, itching closer to
the cash open. The open about 30 41
minutes away. On the equity market right
now, we're negative by 0.5% on the S&P,
down 3/4 on the Nasdaq. In the bond
market, yields bleeding higher. At the
long end, 10s up by five. The 10-year
this morning 446. And in commodities,
Brent WTI looks like this. Are we going
to have another weekend when Monday
morning starts Sunday evening? Please
God. When the oil market opens up. Brent
crude 110.86. WTI just short of 97.
Probably. I mean, it based on the
record, right? Uh ultimately, people are
still going to be logged in regardless
of whether there's any news over the
weekend because this is going to set the
tone for the rest of at least more
Monday morning.
>> Set the scene. You run research at a
bank and your equity strategist knocks
the door.
You open it. What you want? I'm busy.
And then they say, I want to raise the
outlook for our price target on the S&P
500 and you say there's a war. What's
wrong with you? Let's have that
conversation right now with Ajay
Rajadhyaksha of Barclays. Ajay, good to
see you. Well, I wish I could say the
same, but thank you for that. So So that
So that happened in the last week with
the team at Barclays. Your chief
strategist, your equity strategist comes
to you and says, let's raise the outlook
for stocks.
Give me an idea of what that
conversation sounded like.
>> honestly, that those numbers are not
built on air.
The bottoms-up consensus analyst
estimates, you know, there's an analyst
at each shop who with a bunch of juniors
who follows every major name, right?
They do channel checks, they do what the
guidance looks like, et cetera. The
bottoms-up analyst estimates for the S&P
500 show the strongest year-over-year
rebound if you exclude the post-COVID
rebound. And the numbers are the
numbers. I mean, you know, we sometimes
tend to be too fixated, too tend to
extrapolate too much what is happening
in the here and now. Sure. Take 9/11,
which was about as existential as as as
it's as can be, right? I mean, we were
completely shell-shocked as a nation, as
individuals.
Three months later, the S&P 500 was up 2
and 1/2%. 13% higher the day boots went
on the ground in Iraq during the Second
World War. 60% higher since the Russians
invaded Ukraine. So we underestimating
second-order effects here? If you're
saying the outlook for equities is
pretty good, I'm wondering what the
outlook for inflation is with crude at
these levels.
The I think Governor Waller said it
best, if you remember 2 or 3 weeks ago,
his initial response was that this is a
one-time shift in the price level. Base
effects are a central banker's best
friend. Unless you think that this leads
to the Fed losing inflation credibility.
And honestly, guys, if the Fed didn't
lose inflation credibility when headline
ran at 8% for two straight years, it's
not doing it now.
You know, there's no reason to The Fed
hiking is not going to get oil to flow
more freely. They are going to sit this
out. Are people overly conditioned by
previous crises of confidence where you
did see big drawdowns in the market that
there can be a policy response that
offsets any of the potential downdraft
to growth. I think that is a fair
pushback. I don't think most people
believe that now because everyone
realizes that a policy response it
doesn't help get ships faster through
the straight. A policy response doesn't
help
really offset demand destruction if oil
goes to $150 a barrel, right? There is
an element of demand destruction and and
a policy response doesn't help with
that. So, I don't think the market is
counting on that. I think the there's
two things that the market is counting
on. One is the energy intensity of the
world economy is significantly lower
than it was 10 years ago, 15 years ago,
20 years ago. The second is that $100
oil a barrel of oil is not the same
thing as $100 in 2022, let alone 2011.
And I'll remind you we were there in
2011. We had a ton of inflation since
then. And then finally, the the world's
largest economy is a gigantic energy
superpower. You shouldn't forget that.
Well, this all comes along with the
often pushback against the bears that
the technology story is strong and that
the US is the epicenter of a lot of it,
but the tech story hasn't been working.
And that raises a a real problem for
people who are banking on the AI
investment structure. I mean, how solid
is that, especially in light of
tightening financial conditions in the
face of this oil shock?
>> It's incredibly solid. I would argue
that the AI capex cycle is a cyclical. I
agree with you, Lisa. It's not been
working for the last 4 to 6 weeks
because we have all been like a deer in
headlights caught when it comes to Iran.
And that's happened before. 2023, as we
were going under for 6 straight weeks,
the only thing you and I were checking
was a regional bank ETF. Tiny, but you
know, we shouldn't have the bond market
felt like the Fed would cut 100 basis
points that year. Remember how many
times the Fed cut? Zero. We grew at
almost 3% Q4 over Q4, just effortlessly
shrugged it off. So, there tends to be a
tendency to extrapolate. What I know are
the numbers. I know Satya coming out and
saying that the cloud computing backlog
in Q4 was 368 billion. I know that
Google Cloud is going up 50%
year-over-year and Pichai is still
telling us that their backlog is 240
billion. Those are real numbers. You
can't wish them away. Could you have
$150 oil or $200 oil and still have your
outlook? No, then I'm just wrong. I
mean, if if we are here in 2 months
>> what the energy world is saying cuz
that's where the physical market is. But
you are supposed to look the forwards
are the collective cleanest indicator
unless you believe that there's this
gigantic conspiracy, right? Where every
government sitting around the world is
going paying futures down hard hard
hard.
>> Some people do, but yeah, carry on.
Yeah, yeah, but see that you know, Stan
Druckenmiller, his his first mentor had
this phrase, 60 million Frenchmen cannot
be wrong, which is, you know, I'm
assuming the guy was French. But the
point was that the base case tends to be
true 80 to 90% of the time. Markets do a
poor job pricing in a tail for obvious
reasons. Yeah. But in general, it
doesn't pay to be a contrarian and at
this point I think things are nowhere
near as bad as as as as people think,
which is why the equity market doesn't
be is down only 7 to 8% from from its
all-time and that's not a big move. This
was, at risk of offending a lot of
people this week, my favorite
conversation this week. Thanks for being
here, sir. Thank you.
Thank you. You tell him. You tell him.
Achal Agarwal there at Barclays. Thank
you, sir. Coming up on Monday, it's
going to be another long weekend.
Monday, of course, starts Sunday
evening. Look out for the coverage out
of Asia on Sunday evening. Coming up on
Monday, Lori Calvasina of RBC, Helima
Croft of Barclays on that equity call,
Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy, Austin of
Wells Fargo. From New York City this
morning, good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.